Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen).	5
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Each reaction contained: 12.5 ?l of the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG 200 nM 300 nM or 400 nM of forward and reverse primers and 5 ?l cDNA (1:40 RNA dilution) to a final volume of 25 ?l.	3
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Amplification was performed in 0.1 ml real-time PCR tubes (Corbett Research) placed in the 72-well rotor of the Rotor-Gene instrument.	3
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The cycling conditions were as follows: 50°C for 2 min initial denaturation at 95°C for 2 min followed by 45 cycles of 15 s at 95°C 30 s at 60°C and 30 s at 72°C (gain set at 8 for SYBR Green).	2
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The Rotor-Gene software allows automatic melting curve analysis for all tested samples in a given run.	1
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	SYBR Green fluorescence of the generated products was continuously monitored throughout the temperature ramp from 60 to 99°C.	1
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Background	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) has become a very powerful tool for gene expression studies.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	One of the main difficulties associated with this highly sensitive technique is the necessity of accurate normalization to account for varying amounts of cDNA input.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	This variation is inherent to the multistep process required to extract and process the RNA.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The use of internal controls or reference genes has become the method of choice to account for this source of variation.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The choice of an appropriate internal standard is therefore critical for relative gene expression analysis in order to obtain consistent and reliable results especially when measuring small expression differences.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	A suitable reference gene to which expression can be normalized should have constant expression in all samples under investigation and should be insensitive to varying experimental treatments.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Although the nematode C. elegans is a commonly used model organism that has proven its importance in the unraveling of many important signaling pathways to date no comprehensive analysis has been performed to validate candidate reference genes for gene expression analysis.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Therefore commonly used reference genes such as act-1 and ama-1 are often used without validating their usefulness.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	However several reports indicate that the expression of commonly used reference genes can vary under different experimental conditions  possibly leading to dramatic misinterpretation of the expression level of a target gene.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Although there is no universally accepted approach for data normalization the method of using multiple stably expressed reference genes is currently the golden standard .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The straightforward method developed by Vandesompele and colleagues  to identify the most stably expressed reference genes from a set of candidate control genes can be used to normalize gene expression levels (geNorm).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Their method also allows the determination of the optimal number of genes required for reliable normalization of qPCR generated gene expression data.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	They advocate use of the geometric mean of multiple stably expressed reference genes for normalization of relative quantities.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	This approach has been widely implemented by many researchers and has been statistically validated by Szabo et al.  and by the bootstrap procedure of Gabrielsson et al.  but surprisingly seems to be neglected in the C. elegans research field.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The Ins/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) pathway is a well-known life span regulator in C. elegans Drosophila and mice .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	A reduced activity of the pathway in C. elegans leads to nuclear localization of the transcription factor DAF-16 causing dauer formation and extended adult life span.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Long-lived IIS mutants are highly resistant to a wide diversity of stressors including enhanced survival upon exposure to the superoxide generator paraquat .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Given the potential role of reactive oxygen species in the ageing process it is assumed that enzymes involved in the breakdown of ROS play an important role in the longevity phenotype of dauers and long-lived IIS mutants.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Five different genes encoding superoxide dismutase (SOD) have been predicted in C. elegans.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	sod-1 and sod-5 encode cytosolic CuZnSODs.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	sod-4 expresses two splice variants one membrane bound and one secreted.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	sod-2 and sod-3 encode mitochondrial MnSODs.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	It is well-established that increased life span is often associated with increased stress resistance and high antioxidant activity.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	For example the long life span of dauers and IIS mutants is associated with increased stress resistance and high SOD activity .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Northern blot and microarray analysis have shown that sod-3 and possibly also sod-5 are upregulated in dauers and daf-2 mutants .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	We demonstrate the usefulness of geNorm to determine the expression levels of the sod genes in C. elegans.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	geNorm analysis evaluates the stability of candidate reference genes based on the mean pairwise variation of a gene with all other tested genes.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	We compared the expression level of the candidate reference genes in 6 different C. elegans samples to validate internal controls for the analysis of sod gene expression.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The presented approach can be applied to accurately normalize the expression of any C. elegans gene of interest.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Results	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	We carefully selected 12 potential reference genes from different functional classes to minimize the chance of coregulation using two different approaches (Table 1).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	First we selected commonly used reference genes such as ama-1 (RNA polymerase II) act-1 (actin) eif-3.C (Translation initiation factor) gpd-2 (Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) and tba-1 (tubulin).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	In a second approach we screened publicly available C. elegans microarray expression data .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	In this procedure we ranked all genes according to their standard deviation in 553 experiments and chose potential reference genes within the top ranked ones based on the following three criteria: (1) functional description available (2) expression data available for at least 500 experiments and (3) cDNA confirmed (to exclude erroneously predicted genes).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	This strategy resulted in cdc-42 pmp-3 rgs-6 unc-16 and Y45F10D.4 as candidate reference genes.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	After initial screening we found that two genes (rgs-6 and unc-16) from the available expression data in Kim et al.  were expressed at very low levels and therefore excluded for further analysis.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	In an attempt to validate the remaining 10 candidate reference genes as internal control for analysis of sod gene expression in C. elegans we set up an experiment containing young adult wild-type (N2) three strains carrying mutations in the Ins/IGF pathway (daf-2 daf-16 and daf-2; daf-16) wild type dauer worms and wild-type L3 stage larvae.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Data were collected using RNA from 3 replicate C. elegans cultures.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Since the reverse transcription step is the source of most of the variability in quantitative PCR  cDNA synthesis was performed in duplicate from each of the three different biological replicates and pooled to use as template in the PCR experiments.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	For every primer pair concentrations were optimized in a range between 200 nM and 400 nM based on a standard curve made with dilution series of a mixture of all cDNA templates.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	These standard curves produced efficiencies between 1.85 and 2.07 (Table 1) with standard deviations ranging from 0.019 to 0.065 and correlation coefficients greater than 0.984 as determined by qBase .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Three identical real-time qPCR experiments were performed.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	In each experiment the expression levels of the candidate reference genes and sod genes were measured in duplicate in 6 different worm samples.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The candidate control genes display a wide expression range with mean cycle threshold (Ct) values between 14.6 (act-1) and 28.1 (ama-1).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	To identify the most stable reference genes we applied the geNorm program.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The ranking of the candidate reference genes according to their stability measure value (M) in every biological replicate is displayed in Table 2.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	This gene expression stability measure M is the mean pairwise variation between a candidate reference gene and all other tested candidates.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	A higher value of M means greater variation in expression.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The stepwise elimination of genes with the highest M values allows the ranking of the tested genes according to their expression stability.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Interestingly in the three biological repeat experiments cdc-42 and pmp-3 turned out to be among the three best performing reference genes.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Moreover in each of the three biological repeats the ranking of the least stable genes included mdh-1 act-1 and gpd-2.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The consistent ranking of the best and worst reference genes illustrates the excellent correspondence and reproducibility between the 3 independently grown nematode cultures.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Pairwise variations Vn/n+1 between each combination of sequential normalization factors (NF) were calculated by geNorm to determine the optimal number of reference genes required for accurate normalization.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Based on the recommendations by Vandesompele et al.  we used a cut-off value of 0.15 below which the inclusion of an additional reference gene does not result in a significant improvement of normalization (Figure 1).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Following this criterion the inclusion of a third reference gene is required for assay set 1 but not for analyzing replicate sets 2 and 3 (V2/3 values 0.130 and 0.065 respectively).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	For consistency reasons we prefer to use the 3 most stably expressed genes for all 3 replicate assays (as also suggested as a general rule of thumb in Vandesompele et al. ).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	To demonstrate the need for accurate relative quantification using suitable reference genes the expression of the sod genes was studied.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	In each of the three assays a normalization factor based on the geometric mean of cdc-42 pmp-3 and Y45F10D.4 expression level was used to determine the relative expression level of all 5 sod genes.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The average normalised sod mRNA values and the 95% confidence intervals are shown in Figure 2.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The 95% confidence intervals clearly illustrate that sod-1 and sod-3 are significantly upregulated in daf-2 relative to N2 in agreement with microarray studies of McElwee et al.  and Murphy et al. .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	In dauers sod-1 is significantly downregulated relative to L3 sod-3 is significantly upregulated relative to L3 and sod-4 and sod-5 are significantly upregulated relative to both L3 and N2.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	We illustrate that normalization to a single reference gene without appropriate validation can lead to erroneous results by normalizing sod-1 to act-1 gpd-2 and mdh-1 respectively.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	When normalized only to act-1 the expression level of sod-1 in daf-2 differs by more than 40 % and is not found to be significantly upregulated.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Moreover the expression level of sod-1 in the dauer is upregulated instead of downregulated relative to L3.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	This shows that act-1 is unsuitable as a reference gene.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	When using mdh-1 only a modest but not significant increase by 2-fold in daf-2 could be seen and the expression level of sod-1 appears to be strongly upregulated in dauers.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Moreover if gpd-2 or ama-1 had been used no significant differential expression would have been detected in daf-2 mutants or dauers.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Discussion	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	An ideal reference gene is expressed at the same level in all cell types and under all experimental conditions.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Numerous publications demonstrate that no single gene is able to fulfill these criteria.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	To reliably measure small expression differences normalization using (ideally multiple) stably expressed reference genes is of crucial importance.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	This forced us to undertake a comprehensive analysis of different potential reference genes in 6 different C. elegans samples including distinct developmental stages of the wild-type and adults of Ins/IGF pathway mutants.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	We here provide validated assays for a newly developed set of multiple candidate reference genes.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The geNorm analysis revealed that cdc-42 and pmp-3 are among the 3 best performing reference genes identified in each of 3 biological replicates.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	They were picked up from a microarray screen of differentially regulated genes (the Kim database) underscoring the reliability of this strategy to identify new candidate reference genes.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	They are far more stably expressed than conventional reference genes at least in this study.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Since in all 3 biological repeats addition of a fourth reference gene did not substantially improve the newly calculated normalization factor there was no need to include more reference genes.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Therefore we recommend to use three reference genes since we generally found that this number allows reliable and accurate quantification with a minimal effort.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Our analysis showed that mdh-1 is the least stable reference gene which is in concordance with a previously published paper of McElwee et al.  who demonstrated by microarray analysis that mdh-1 was downregulated in dauers.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Similarly Mendenhall et al.  have recently shown that gpd-2 was upregulated in daf-2 worms.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Both studies suggest that gpd-2 and mdh-1 are downstream genes of DAF-16.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	As expected geNorm ranked these genes as the two least stable reference genes in two of the three biological repeats.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Interestingly the most commonly used reference gene act-1 is one of the least stable reference genes as indicated by the geNorm analysis.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	We used the reference genes to reveal the expression levels of sod-genes in long-lived Ins/IGF mutants and dauers.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Our results largely confirm and extend previous studies using Norhern blots SAGE and microarray analysis.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The increased expression of sod-3 in dauers and daf-2 mutants has been well documented  .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Elevated expression of sod-4 in dauers was reported by Jones et al. .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	We also detected an increased expression of sod-1 in daf-2 mutants which is in accordance with the increased activity of cytosolic SOD in long-lived Ins/IGF-1 pathway mutants  given that SOD-1 appears to be the most active CuZnSOD  (Matthijssens unpublished data).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Conclusion	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	This study demonstrates the importance of appropriate validation of internal reference genes chosen for gene expression analysis using real-time qPCR.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	We show that candidate reference genes for accurate normalization of gene expression levels in C. elegans can be identified from publicly available microarray databases.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The methodology used in the present study enables accurate analysis of differential gene expression of any set of candidate genes.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Methods	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Nematode culturing	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	In this experiment we compared the expression levels of candidate reference genes and five sod-genes in dauers compared to L3 larvae and in adults of the wild-type N2 strain and the mutant strains daf-2(e1370ts) daf-16(m26) and daf-2(e1370ts); daf-16(m26).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Reduction-of-function mutation in the gene daf-2 which encodes the Ins/IGF-1 receptor causes extension of life span.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	This effect requires intact activity of the FOXO transcription factor DAF-16 and is therefore suppressed in strains that carry reduction- or loss-of-function mutations in daf-16.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Synchronous populations were initiated from eggs prepared by alkaline hypochlorite treatment of gravid adults.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Worms were grown on cholesterol supplemented Nutrient Agar (OXOID) plates containing a lawn of freshly grown E. coli K12 cells .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Wild-type L3 worms were harvested after 30 hours of growth at 24Â°C.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	At harvest worms were rinsed off the plates washed with S-buffer (43.55 mM KH2PO4 6.45 mM K2HPO4 and 100 mM NaCl in distilled water pH 6) flash frozen and stored at -75Â°C until use.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Since daf-2 (e1370ts) is a constitutive dauer former at 24Â°C the cultures grown for harvesting adult worms of all strains were incubated at 17Â°C and shifted to 24Â°C after the animals had molted to the fourth larval stage.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Samples were taken two days later.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Dauers from N2 were obtained as described in Houthoofd et al. .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Briefly agar plates (pH 7.0) were seeded with freshly prepared eggs hemoglobin and autoclaved E. coli cells and incubated at 24Â°C.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	These conditions induce almost 100% dauer formation.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Plates containing less than 99% dauers were discarded.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Three independently grown replicates of all worm cultures were used to account for experimental variation.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Isolation of RNA and cDNA synthesis	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Total RNA was isolated using the RNeasy Midi Kit (Qiagen) according to manufacturer's instructions.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	All samples were DNase treated (Zymo Research).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	A NanoDrop ND 1000 spectrophotometer was employed to analyze RNA concentration and purity.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	First strand cDNA was synthesized from 2 ?g RNA using an oligo(dT) primer and a Moloney murine leukemia virus reverse transcriptase (Fermentas) at 42Â°C for 1 h.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Real-time RT-PCR	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Full-length gene sequences were extracted from WormBase (Release WS170) and primers were designed by the Primer3 software  and tested for specifity using NCBI BLAST.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The targets amplified by the primer pairs were evaluated with MFOLD software  in order to check for the formation of secondary structures at the site of primer binding.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	MFOLD analysis was performed using default settings and 50 mM Na+ 3 mM Mg2+ and a temperature of 60Â°C (which is the annealing temperature of the primers).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Primers were purchased from Invitrogen.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Primer and amplicon information are listed in Table 3.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Following the final cycle melting curve analysis was performed to examine the specificity in each reaction tube (absence of primer dimers and other nonspecific products).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The temperature rose in 1Â° increments with a 5 s hold at each degree.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	A single melt peak for each reaction confirmed the identity of each PCR product.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Each assay included a no-template control for every primer pair.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	In addition aliquots of each reaction mixture were analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis to evaluate amplification of nonspecific products.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Quantification and data analysis	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The threshold cycle (Ct) values of the Rotor-Gene software version 6.0 (Corbett Research) were exported to qBase version 1.3.5 a free program for the management and automated analysis of qPCR data  for further analysis.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	All measurements were produced in duplicate and for each primer set reaction efficiency estimates were derived from standard curves that were generated using serial dilutions of a cDNA pool of all nematode samples.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	These were then used by qBase to transform the Ct values to relative quantities for analysis with geNorm 3.4 software .	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	The geNorm VBA applet for Microsoft Excel determines the most stable reference genes from a set of genes in a given panel of cDNA samples.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	After normalization using the geometric mean of the three most stable reference genes the normalized sod expression ratios were standardized to minimize inter-experimental variation.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	To this purpose the normalized expression levels were converted into logarithmic values divided by their standard deviation and multiplied by the mean standard deviation of the 3 experiments to calculate the mean standardized expression per nematode sample and its 95% confidence interval.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Finally all values were linearized again using a power function and plotted in a graph (Willems et al. manuscript in preparation).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Differential gene expression was considered significant when the 95% confidence interval of the mean expression levels did not overlap (equivalent to P   0.05).	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	Authors' contributions	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	DH and KH conceived and designed all experiments analyzed data and wrote the manuscript; DH and FM performed experiments; JV provided expert input in data analysis and critically revised the manuscript; JRV supervised the study.	0
Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out using a Rotor-Gene 2000 centrifugal real-time cycler (Corbett Research) using the Platinum SYBR Green qPCR SuperMix-UDG (Invitrogen) as described previously.	All authors read and approved the final manuscript.	0
