We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In order to evaluate the degree of degradation electrophoretic methods have been applied that separate the samples according to the size of the comprised molecules.	1
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In this study we present a software algorithm that allows the calculation of an RNA Integrity Number (RIN).	3
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For microcapillary electrophoresis the Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer was used in conjunction with the RNA 6000 Nano and the RNA 6000 Pico LabChip kits.	3
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For the development of the RNA Integrity Number algorithm a total of 1208 RNA samples from various sources and of different degradation states was analyzed.	3
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Therefore it allows detection of a beginning degradation.	1
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The fast area ratio reflects how far the degradation proceeded and has typically larger values for the categories 3 to 6.	1
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	We demonstrated that the application of the methodology to a large collection of electrophoretic RNA measurements recorded with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer provides a predictive model for RNA integrity the RIN.	4
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Background	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The RNA molecule plays a critical role in transferring information encoded in the genome (DNA) to the many different forms of proteins.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	After extracting RNA from cells by various methods scientists are provided with a direct measure of cellular activity using gene expression measurement techniques.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Among these real-time PCR and DNA microarrays are the most widely used techniques.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Importance of integrity	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	RNA is a thermodynamically stable molecule which is however rapidly digested in the presence of the nearly ubiquitous RNase enzymes.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	As a result shorter fragments of RNA commonly occur in a sample which can potentially compromise results of downstream applications .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Historically RNA integrity is evaluated using agarose gel electrophoresis stained with ethidium bromide which produces a certain banding pattern .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Typically gel images show two bands comprising the 28S and 18S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) species and other bands where smaller RNA species are located.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	RNA is considered of high quality when the ratio of 28S:18S bands is about 2.0 and higher.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Since this approach relies on human interpretation of gel images it is subjective hardly comparable from one lab to another and the resulting data cannot be processed digitally.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Towards an automated approach	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In 1999 the Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer was introduced for the separation of DNA RNA and protein samples.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	It has since become a mainstream technique for the analysis of RNA samples.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The bioanalyzer is an automated bio-analytical device using microfluidics technology that provides eletrophoretic separations in an automated and reproducible manner .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Tiny amounts of RNA samples are separated in the channels of the microfabricated chips according to their molecular weight and subsequently detected via laser-induced fluorescence detection.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The result is visualized as an electropherogram where the amount of measured fluorescence correlates with the amount of RNA of a given size.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Since data are produced in a digital format they can be easily re-processed to allow additional calculations based on the acquired raw data.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	When first released the Biosizing Software calculated the ratio of the two ribosomal bands following the commonly used approach for RNA integrity assessment.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	However although assessing RNA quality with the bioanalyzer proves to be far superior to the slab gel based approach the usage of ribosomal ratio for RNA quality assessment has several shortcomings.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In many cases ribosomal ratios showed only weak correlation with RNA integrity  and more in-depth analysis of the electrophoretic traces requires expert knowledge and is of a subjective nature.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	To provide a tool for standardization of RNA quality control a user-independent automated and reliable procedure was developed.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The algorithm was developed using methods from information theory to rank features according to their information content and using a Bayesian approach to train and select a prediction model on the basis of artificial neural networks.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	An overview of the application scenario is summarized schematically in figure 1.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Techniques for measuring RNA integrity	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This bio-analytical device is based on a combination of microfluidic chips voltage-induced size separation in gel filled channels and laser-induced fluorescence (LIF) detection on a miniaturized scale .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Twelve samples can be processed sequentially while consuming only very small amounts of each sample.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	RNA molecules are stained with an intercalating dye and detected by means of LIF.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Data are archived automatically and available as electropherograms gel-like images as well as in tabular format.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Figure 2 shows example electropherograms of different RNA samples displaying varying RNA integrity levels.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Visual inspection of the electrophoretic traces reveals that progressing degradation entails a decrease of signal intensities for the two ribosomal bands in conjunction with an increase of shorter fragments i.e. an elevated baseline between the two ribosomal bands and below the 18S band.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Integrity measures for RNA	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The degradation process of RNA is only partly understood since it is dependent on the type of RNase that is present and is often combined with fragmentation processes.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Also the quality of RNA in a given experiment can vary extensively from one extraction to another and needs to be under constant surveillance.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Using precise analytical instrumentation such as the Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer human experts are capable of distinguishing RNA samples of different quality by examining electrophoretic traces and assigning integrity values or integrity categories .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Note that the degradation of RNA is a continuous process which implies that there are no natural integrity categories.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In this situation machine learning methods can be applied to data from experimental measurements to learn an implicit model of RNA integrity in order to achieve a user-independent method for assigning integrity values.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	That is the algorithm extracts the relationship between characteristics of the measurement or features and the expert-assigned categories.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Traditionally a simple model evaluating the 28S to 18S rRNA ratio has been used as a criterion for RNA quality.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	If not restricted to very specific RNA types this model has been shown to be insufficient for a general RNA integrity prediction .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	An adaptive approach can be applied to solve this prediction task when based on a large collection of samples.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In general an approach applied to this kind of task comprises at least the following basic steps which are described in more detail below in the method section:	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Data labeling and preprocessing	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Extracting features from the electropherogram	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Selecting an appropriate feature combination	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Training prediction models and selecting the most promising model	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Results	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Sample preparation and data basis	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Total RNA was obtained from various tissues and different organisms mainly human rat and mouse.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	All samples were analyzed on the Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The overall number of samples in the database totals 1208.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	About 30% of the samples are of known origin from human mouse and rat extracted from liver kidney colon spleen brain heart and placenta.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The origin of the remaining samples was not traceable but is known to be of mammalian cells or cell lines.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For the development of the algorithm it was important to include samples of all degradation stages into the database.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The final data set included many intact as well as almost completely degraded RNA samples (cf. table 1 for the distribution of samples).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Partially degraded RNA samples were less common but still sufficient in number.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Furthermore the data set comprised different sample concentrations and different extraction methods.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	To some extent anomalies were found in the data set as well.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This provided a realistic collection of input data containing a representative basis for all stages of RNA degradation.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Applying our method described below to the data basis yields a sorted list of features which was used to construct feature spaces for training regression models.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Furthermore results are given for models based on features proposed in the literature.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Finally we show the correlation of the RIN with the outcome of real-time PCR experiments.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Feature selection	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The total RNA ratio was selected as first feature covering 79% of the entropy of the categorical values.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The next two features contribute information about the 28S-region: 28S peak height and the 28S area ratio.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The fourth feature compares the 18S and 28S area to the area of the fast region.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Feature 5 is the value of a linear regression at the end point of the fast region whereas the next feature reflects the amount of detected fragments in the fast region.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Then the presence or absence of the 18S peak is selected which enables the model to distinguish between weaker and stronger degradation.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The last feature gives the relation of the overall mean value to the median value.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Since the mean value is sensitive to large peaks it carries information about totally degraded RNA or about abnormalities like spikes.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Table 2 summarizes the results of the feature selection process.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	An interpretation of these features from a biological point of view is given in the discussion and an overview of all features is given in the additional files [see ].	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Based on the sorted list of features we trained neural networks as regression models and systematically increased the number of hidden neurons from 0 to 8 until the model evidence decreased clearly.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Furthermore we varied the feature space as described in the previous section.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	We observed maximal model evidence using 5 to 7 features with 2 to 5 neurons in the hidden layer.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The values are averaged over the results of a 10-fold cross-validation procedure (Fig. 3).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	As expected the model evidence is strongly negatively correlated with the generalization error (? = -0.93) which shows that the model evidence is a sensible model selection criterion (Fig. 3 and 4).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	We selected the topology using 5 features and 4 hidden neurons as the most probable model and performed the final training on the whole training data set.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The log value for the evidence of the final model was slightly higher compared to the values during cross validation (-74 vs. -100) whereas the generalization error was stable (MSE of 0.26).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The cross validation error was observed to be a good estimate for the generalization error on the test data.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The feature selection procedure provides in each step the local optimal additional feature which will not necessarily lead to the globally best combination.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In the later iteration steps several candidate features provide the same gain in information about the target and there is some randomness in the final selection.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Explorative searching for the best combination is intractable because of the computational costs of the combinatorial search.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In an additional manual optimization step application knowledge was used to substitute some features by plausible alternatives.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Feature 3 and 4 were replaced by the area ratio in the fast region (fast.area.ratio).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Additionally the marker height was selected.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In the normalized electropherogram the marker height allows to detect strongly degraded samples because it is the only part of the signal which differs from the background noise.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This combination also has a relative MI value of 0.83 but the best model with 5 hidden neurons had a log value for the evidence of -42.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	It reaches a cross-validation error of 0.25 and a test error of 0.25 which is slightly better compared to the results from figure 4.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Both models perform equally well the later one was chosen for the final implementation in the expert software for the sake of simplicity.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Finally we evaluated regression models for a subset of 400 samples on two different feature spaces: the 28S/18S ratio and the feature computed by the degradometer software .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Table 3 shows that the RIN model is based on a feature space with higher information content than the other two models.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Model evidences indicate that using a single feature results in a lower posterior probability of the model.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This is again consistent with the generalization performance of the models.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The error of RIN model is forty times lower compared to 28S/18S-model and about twenty times lower compared the degradometer based model if all samples are considered.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	If the samples that are labeled BLACK by the degradometer software are removed from the data set (N = 186 42%) the relative MI value increases to 0.63 the evidence reaches a value of -121 whereas the cross validation error is at 0.60 which is still four times higher than for the RIN model.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Model evaluation	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	If a model is supposed to extract a relationship from experimental data it is helpful for the model evaluation to explore the data in the most important two dimensions as well as to check for large error values which correspond to categorical misclassifications.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Furthermore the model prediction can be cross-checked against control parameters of follow-up experiments like RT-PCR.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Visualization of decision boundaries	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The 2D-visualization of total RNA ratio and 28S peak height shows that we can clearly separate high integrity values from low integrity values.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The categories form clusters in this space.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	However as mentioned in the previous section the borderline between categories is not sharp which is due to the fact that degradation is a continuous process.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Categorical misclassifications	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Simple features like the ribosomal ratio which cover only one aspect of the degradation process tend to have larger errors for certain groups of experiments.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	That is they cannot distinguish very well between the categories.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	It is very useful to check that only a few experiments are interchanged over more than one categorical border that is the model covers all aspects of the degradation process.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Misclassifications are measured by Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC cf. ) for distinguishing electropherograms from different groups of categories whereas the value of the area under the ROC-curve (AUC: area under the curve) is a balanced measure for the classification error.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	We briefly and informally describe how a ROC curve is constructed.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The electropherograms are sorted into a ordered list according to the integrity measure estimated by the model.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For a fixed classification task a ROC curve is constructed as exemplarily described in the following for the task of distinguishing electropherograms of category 10 from all other categories: walk through the sorted list in descending order.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In each step check if the considered item is in category 10 or not according to the original expert label.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	If it is true draw a line fragment in vertical direction if it is false draw it in horizontal direction.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Perfect separation of category 10 from the others would imply that the ROC curve shoots up vertically on the y-axis to the maximal value before the first horizontal step is taken.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Random assignment of electropherograms would result in a ROC curve that corresponds to a diagonal line from the origin to the right top corner.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	A ROC curve gives a balanced measure of the model performance by integrating over all possible classification borders.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Each border corresponds to a specific ratio of sensitivity to specifity i.e. a specific point on the ROC curve.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Several electropherograms are interchanged between the adjacent categories 9 and 10 (AUC 0.96) which is natural due to the noise in label assignment step.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Very rarely are assignments from electropherograms from category 10 to category 8 or less (AUC 0.98).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Only 1 electropherogram is interchanged between category 7 and category 10 (AUC 0.999 cf fig. 5).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Computing the AUC value for all other sensible groups of categories shows that categorical misclassifications are seldom observed.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The average AUC-value is 98.7 with a standard deviation of 1.4.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Table 4 summarizes the categorical errors over all possible sets of experiments.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Correlation with the outcome of experiments	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Correlation of RIN values with downstream experiments is of critical importance.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	On the one hand a good correlation will demonstrate the validity of this approach.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	On the other hand it allows determination of threshold values in order to get meaningful downstream data.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For two-color microarray experiments this could mean for example that the two input samples should not differ by more than a given number of RIN classes while the lowest acceptable RIN can be determined as well.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In the present study RIN values as well as ribosomal ratios were correlated with real-time PCR data.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	A detailed description of the sample types and extraction methods as well of the entire experimental setup has been published previously .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In short a gene score was calculated based on the average apparent expression level of 4 different housekeeping genes (GAPDH KYNF NEFL ?2M) as measured by real-time PCR.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Please note that in this experiment differences in the apparent gene expression levels are induced by progressing degradation of the RNA string material.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Figure 6 shows the plot of the average apparent gene expression on a logarithmic scale against the RIN.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Immediately 2 cluster of data appear corresponding to high gene expression (intact RNA) with a high RIN value and low gene expression (degraded RNA) with a low RIN value.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	On the other hand the ribosomal ratio exhibits only a weak correlation with the experimentally observed gene expression level (RNA integrity).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The RIN allows for a straightforward separation in positives and negatives whereas the ribosomal ratio would reject many more experiments than necessary.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The historical value of 2.0 would reject about 40 experiments of good quality and a value of 1.75 results in about 15 false negatives.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Discussion	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Because of the critical influence of RNA integrity on downstream experiments there is a strong need for a reliable reproducible and standardized approach to classify the quality of RNA samples.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The long time standard consisting in a 28S to 18S peak ratio of 2.0 was shown to provide only weak correlation with RNA integrity.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer a bio-analytical device based on a combination of microfluidics microcapillary electrophoresis and fluorescence detection provides a platform to record the size distribution of molecules e.g.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	RNA in a digital format.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Since this approach is highly reproducible and automated it provides the basis for an automated user-independent and reproducible approach to evaluate the integrity of RNA samples using a software algorithm.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For the development of the RNA Integrity Number algorithm a total of 1208 RNA samples from various sources and of different degradation states was analyzed.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	After assigning the samples to 10 different categories ranging from 1 (worst) to 10 (best) methods from information theory were applied to calculate features describing the curve of the electropherogram.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In the following step features were selected for further processing that showed high information content about the task to distinguish the 10 categories.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	These features were then taken as input variables for a model-training step.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Here using a Bayesian learning approach to select the most probable model several models were trained utilizing artificial neural networks and the best was chosen for prediction of previously unseen test data.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The result produced by this procedure is an algorithm called RNA Integrity Number (RIN).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Analysis of the RIN model	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The RIN algorithm is based on a selection of features that contribute information about the RNA integrity.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	It is obvious that a single feature is hardly sufficient for a universal integrity measure.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Moreover a combination of different features covers several aspects of the measurement and is more robust against noise in the signal (see Additional file  for a overview of all features).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	To understand why the features were selected and to enhance the confidence for application specialists it is important to give an interpretation of the features:	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The total RNA ratio measures the fraction of the area in the region of 18S and 28S compared to the total area under the curve and reflects the proportion of large molecules compared to smaller ones.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	It has large values for categories 6 to 10.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The height of the 28S peak contributes additional information about the state of the degradation process i.e. during degradation the 28S band disappears faster than the 18S band.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	It has largest values for categories 9 and 10 and zero values for categories 1 to 3.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The marker height has large values for categories 1 and 2 and small values for all other categories since short degradation products will overlap with the lower marker.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Figure 7 shows the projection of the distribution of integrity categories onto a two-dimensional space spanned by the two most important features.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Clearly a global non-linear relationship can be observed.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The experiments are grouped along a characteristic line with varying variance.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The boundaries between adjacent categories are not perfectly sharp but clearly visible in this projection with some interchanges.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Comparing the approaches	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Using a single simple feature to judge RNA Integrity was already shown to be insufficient .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	While focusing on one aspect of the electropherogram allows for a rough orientation about the integrity it is still subjective to a high degree.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Linear models based on these features show a mean squared error that is four to sixty times higher (degradation factor resp. 28S/18S ratio) than compared to the proposed approach.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The reason for this tremendous difference lies in the fact that neither the 28S/18S ratio nor the degradation factor reflect all properties of the RNA degradation process.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For example several samples of integrity category 10 are labeled BLACK from the degradometer software as they have low signal intensities.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This happened for 42% of the samples under consideration which are all samples that were under investigation for microarray experiments.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The degradation factor contains similar information as the fast area ratio which reflects typical characteristics of categories 3 to 7.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The high ribosomal ratio is useful to detect a certain amount of high quality samples but the categorization is not valid for all of them.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Using several features which complement one another and allow for a non-linear weighting of these features allowed to reduce the error to a minimum value which is in the order of the natural noise in the target data.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The noise results from using a categorical grid for a continues process as well as from a few abnormalities.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Interestingly almost no interchanges over more than one categorical border are observed.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Thus the classification errors appear almost only at the borderline between two categories which was also difficult for humans to decide when labeling the data.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Availability of the RIN model	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer system software can be downloaded from Agilent's webpage [see ].	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Version B.01.03 and later will allow for measurement reviews (free of licenses) including the calculation of the RNA integrity number .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Up-to-date information about the RIN-project can be found at the RIN web site .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Conclusion	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This article investigates an automated procedure for extracting features from signal measurements selecting suitable subsets of features and extracting a functional relationship to target labels of experiments.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The generalization error is as low as the natural noise in the target values and apparently lower than for ribosomal ratios.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Our results show the importance of taking characteristics of several regions of the recorded electropherogram into account in order to get a robust and reliable prediction of RNA integrity.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Furthermore it was demonstrated that the RIN can be correlated with the outcome of downstream experiments i.e. by performing this quality assessment step users can prevent themselves from erroneous results and loss of money and resources.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	We conclude that the RNA integrity number is an important tool in conducting valid gene expression measurement experiments as real-time PCR or DNA microarray that is already widely and successfully used since the release of the ?-version.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	It is largely free from instrument and concentration variability thereby facilitating the comparison of samples between different labs.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For example the RIN can be assigned to a RNA sample before shipping from a lab and the same quality control can be performed in a user-independent way at the destination lab.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Methods	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Data labeling and preprocessing	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For classification of RNA integrity ten categories were defined from 1 (totally degraded RNA) to 10 (fully intact RNA).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Figure 2 illustrates qualitatively the differences between the categories.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Each of the 1208 samples was assigned manually to one of the categories by experienced expert users.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The categorical values provide the target values for the adaptive learning steps.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The assignment to categories was very carefully done as it is critical for the performance of the resulting algorithm.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Especially for RNA samples at the borderline of two adjacent integrity categories the assignment to each of the two categories could be justified but one had to be selected.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This reflects a natural randomness which is inherent in a gradual process like RNA degradation.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	However such random noise in the target values can easily be handled by the learning model which assumes noise in the target data.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Detecting abnormalities in the electropherogram is another important preprocessing step to get a clean set of training samples.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Various anomalies can disturb the usual shape of an electropherogram e.g. ghost peaks spikes wavy baseline and unexpected sample type.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	They were observed in approx.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	5% of the samples.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	To separate anomalies from normal samples several simple detectors were constructed.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Each detector performs a linear classification based on a threshold value.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Spikes for example can have a large peak height but have very narrow peak width; they appear as very sharp peaks.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Normally the largest peaks in the electrophoretic traces are located at the 18S and 28S bands but compared to a spike are significantly broader.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	If a high peak does not cover the minimal requested area it is rejected as a spike and marked as abnormal.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Applying these detection criteria to the data set returned 117 electropherograms as abnormal.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Eleven abnormal samples could not be detected for example because a spike arose near the 28S peak and could not be identified as such.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	All of them were assigned a sensible label and put in the test set.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This reflects the natural occurrence of such effects in the test phase.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In the application phase we distinguish between critical and non-critical anomalies based on their influence on the computation of the RIN.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The former are anomalies of baseline and anomalies in the 5S-region the latter anomalies in the pre-region precursor-region and post-region (cf. fig. 8).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	If a critical anomaly is detected the RIN is not computed.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Instead an error message appears to the user.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	If a non-critical anomaly is detected the RIN is computed and a warning to the user is displayed .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Baseline correction and normalization are applied to the electropherogram prior to the actual feature extraction process.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	These functions are standard features of Agilent's Expert Software .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The baseline is a constant background signal of the electropherogram and its level may significantly differ between different electropherograms.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The baseline-corrected signal is then normalized.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For height related features it is normalized to the global maximum of the 5S-region to precursor-region.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For area related features it is normalized to the global signal area in the 5S-region to precursor-region.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The pre-region marker-region and post-region are intentionally not considered critical elements of the electrophoretic trace since they don't contain critical information about the RNA degradation process.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Feature extraction	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The aim of this step is to define and extract informative features from the electropherograms.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For this purpose each electropherogram is divided into the following nine adjacent segments covering the entire electropherogram: a pre-region a marker-region a 5S-region a fast-region an 18S-region an inter-region a 28S-region a precursor-region and a post-region (Fig. 8).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The subdivision is based on the peak table and the fragment table as computed by Agilent's Expert Software.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Each of these segments can then be considered separately yielding a number of local features.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Several iterations of generating and evaluating features showed that it is sufficient to extract a set of specific features reflecting statistical properties such as average and maximum heights areas and their ratios as well as signal-to-noise ratios to cover for the information contained in the different regions of an electropherogram.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In addition several global features were extracted i.e. features that span several segments.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Among these the average and maximum height areas and their ratios total RNA ratio and the 28S area ratio are the most important features.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Both have been used as criteria for RNA integrity assessment in the past.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The total RNA ratio is the ratio of the area of the ribosomal bands to the total area of the electropherogram whereas 28S area ratio measures only the fraction of 28S-fragment.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This set of features extracted from the electropherograms and their manually assigned RNA integrity categories form the knowledge base for the following steps of the algorithm.  contains a complete description of the set of features.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Feature selection	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In practice only a limited amount of data is available for determining the parameters of a model.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Therefore the dimensionality of the feature vector must be in a sensible relation to the number of data points i.e. electropherograms.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Each additional feature increases the information content of the input about the target but decreases the number of data points per dimension in order to determine the parameters.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This means that the class of functions in which the solution is searched increases fast ('empty space phenomenon') .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Estimating a dependency between the features and the target will be more robust when the input-target space is low-dimensional.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	A rough orientation to determine the maximum number of features for training a prediction model is given in .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For a data set of about 1000 experiments the search is therefore restricted to vectors which combine at most eight features.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	To select the most promising features from our candidates we use a forward selection procedure based on mutual information.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The mutual information MI (X ; T) of two random vectors X and T is defined as the Kullback-Leibler distance between the joint distribution	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This can be expressed in terms of entropies as	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	MI (X; T) = H(T) - H(T|X)  (2)	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	which describes the reduction in the uncertainty or entropy H(T) of a target vector T due to the knowledge of X.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	To compute the required densities in equation 1 from the empirical data we use non-parametric kernel estimators as described in .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	As the first step in the selection procedure a feature f is selected from the set of candidates which has maximal mutual information with the target for the given data set.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In each subsequent step one of the remaining features is selected which maximizes the mutual information with the target when added to the already selected features.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This way the features are ranked by the amount of information they add about the target.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The result of the feature selection process is a sorted list (cf. table 2 which allows constructing a nested series of feature spaces with growing dimensionality up to the maximal amount of d = 8 features:	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Model training	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	After the nested series is constructed regression models are trained for each feature space. Neural networks are used as semi-parametric regression models .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The functional relationship between the input features and the target which has to be learned from the empirical data must generalize to previously unseen data points i.e. electropherograms of newly measured RNA.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The theory of regularization shows that approximating the target as good as possible on the training data for example by minimizing the mean squared error ED is not sufficient: it is crucial to balance the training error against the model complexity .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Therefore we train the neural networks to minimize the regularized error E = ?ED + ?ER.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The regularization term Er measures the model complexity taking into account the weights wk in the network. We choose the weight-decay 12?wk2	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	We apply a Bayesian approach to determine the weights wk and the parameters ? and ? during training as described elsewhere .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Given the training data D we want to find the 'best' model M(?) with parameter vector ?.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In case of neural networks the parameter vector consists of the weight vector w the hyperparameters ? and ? as well as the topology of the network.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	In general we cannot determine all these parameters at once.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	For that the Bayesian framework proceeds in a hierarchical fashion.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	While keeping all other parameters fixed on the first level we search for an optimal weight vector which maximizes the posterior probability p(w|D) using the fast optimization algorithm Rprop .	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	On the second level optimal weighting coefficients ? and ? are determined which again maximize the posterior probability p(??|D).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This is done iteratively: we fix ? and ? and optimize the weights wk as described above.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Afterwards we re-estimate ? and ? and keep alternating several times between optimizing the weights and updating ? and ? (see  for the update rules and mathematical details).	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	On the third level we can compare networks with different topologies.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Using Bayes' rule we can write the posterior probability of a model ?	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	If we assign the same prior P(?	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Marginalizing over ? and ? and making use of the posterior probability for ? and ? from the second level provides an equation for the logarithm of the evidence ln p(D|?	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	To find the model which best explains the given data set i.e. with maximal evidence we systematically vary the number h of hidden units in the networks from 0 to 8.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	All hidden units with tangens hyperbolicus as activation function are in a single layer restricting the search space to models with moderate non-linearity.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	The best topology is selected as the topology with the highest evidence in average over a 10-fold cross-validation procedure on the training data.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	This topology is then used to train the final model on the whole training set.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Figure 6 shows a strong correlation between the logarithm of the model evidence and the cross-validation error pointing out that the evidence is a sensible selection criterion.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Authors' contributions	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	AS OM SS RS ML and TR designed the study.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	AS OM SS RS ML MGA SL WM MGR and TR contributed to development of methodology.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	AS and TR executed the experiments AS OM SS RS SL and MGA validated the study.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	AS MGR and TR designed and implemented the software for this study.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	Illustrations from AS OM MGR and TR.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	All authors participated in writing the manuscript.	0
We monitored the degree of degradation with an Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer following the RNA integrity number (RIN) classification.	All authors approved the final manuscript.	0
