Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	For RGMc these consist of single-chain and heterodimeric membrane-linked molecules and soluble 50 and 40 kDa single-chain proteins that arise from an incompletely defined biosynthetic and processing pathway .	3
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Both 50 and 40 kDa RGMc are found in the blood of humans and mice and in extra-cellular fluid of cultured cells.	4
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	An antibody affinity column was prepared by coupling 1.5 mg of antigen-purified rabbit anti-RGMc IgG to CNBr-activated Sephadex 4B (Amersham-Pharmacia Piscataway NJ USA).	3
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Serum was obtained from two healthy humans (ages 25 and 35) and two male mice (age 10 and 12 weeks).	3
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Mouse or human serum (0.5 ml) or conditioned culture medium (1 ml) was diluted into 10 mM TrisHCl pH 7.4 0.05% Tween-20 and protease inhibitors (Roche Indianapolis IN USA).	3
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Samples were pre-cleared with protein-A agarose (Sigma) for 4 h at 4°C then incubated with affinity resin for 16 h at 4°C.	3
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Following washes (10 column volumes of 10 mM TrisHCl pH 7.4 0.05% Tween-20) proteins were eluted with 0.5 ml of 100 mM glycine pH 2.5 and neutralized with 1 M TrisHCl pH 8.0.	3
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	To determine if full-length RGMc is a substrate for PCs we first purified the soluble protein by antibody affinity chromatography from culture medium from differentiating muscle cells and from mouse and human blood.	5
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Both 50 and 40 kDa RGMc species were detected from all three sources (Fig. 1C and 1D).	5
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Surprisingly serum concentrations differed substantially between two healthy humans and between two healthy male mice of the same age and on the same diet where in one mostly the 50 kDa form of RGMc was detected (Fig. 1D lane c vs. d).	3
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In this manuscript we show that RGMc accumulates in extra-cellular fluid of cultured cells and in mouse and human serum as 50 and 40 kDa protein species (Fig. 1).	5
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Our detection of both 50 and 40 kDa RGMc in human and mouse serum further supports the physiological significance of its PC-mediated proteolysis.	5
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Background	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Iron is an essential element required for many cellular processes including energy metabolism oxygen transport and respiration .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Iron homeostasis is tightly regulated and there are major health consequences linked to both its deficiency and excess  Normal iron homeostasis is disrupted in hemochromatosis a heterogenous hereditary disorder of iron overload.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Juvenile hemochromatosis (JH) is a rapidly progressive form of this disease with severe systemic consequences if untreated .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Many patients with JH have mutations in the HJV gene which encodes hemojuvelin  and mice lacking hjv develop an iron-overload phenotype .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Hemojuvelin is identical to RGMc and with RGMa and RGMb comprise the repulsive guidance molecule (RGM) family .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	RGMa and b are produced primarily in the central nervous system  and play roles in neuronal survival and patterning  while RGMc is synthesized in liver and striated muscle .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	All three RGM genes encode glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored and soluble glycoproteins.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The mechanisms by which RGMc participates in systemic iron balance are unknown.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The liver-derived hormone hepcidin is an essential regulator of iron homeostasis that acts by controlling intestinal iron absorption and recovery from macrophages .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Hepcidin binds to the membrane iron transporter ferroportin leading to its degradation .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In hemochromatosis hepcidin levels are low and dietary iron uptake is excessive .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Recent studies have suggested that membrane-associated RGMc increases hepcidin gene expression in the liver by collaboration with signaling pathways activated by bone morphogenic proteins (BMP) 2 and 4  and thus acts to prevent iron import.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	By contrast soluble RGMc may inhibit hepcidin synthesis .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	RGMc also may promote iron uptake into cells  but biochemical mechanisms have not been defined.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Here we demonstrate a role for pro-protein convertases (PC) in the biogenesis of RGMc and in their regulation by iron.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Through biochemical and cell-based approaches we show that PCs cleave full-length 50 kDa RGMc at an evolutionarily conserved recognition site into a 40 kDa soluble species truncated at its COOH-terminus.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The relative ratio and overall abundance of both RGMc species appears to be altered by cellular iron levels with iron loading leading to a decline in soluble RGMc but an increase in the 50 kDa isoform and in the amount of single chain RGMc retained on the cell membrane.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Thus our results define potential interactions between PCs and iron to control the expression of a critical iron-regulatory protein.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Methods	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Cell culture	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	All cells were incubated at 37Â°C in humidified air and 5% CO2.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The following established cell lines were used.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Murine C3H10T1/2 cells (ATCC #CCL-226 Manassas VA USA) and C2 myoblasts  were grown on gelatin-coated dishes in DMEM (Mediatech-Cellgro Herndon VA USA) plus 10% heat-inactivated fetal calf serum (FCS Hyclone Logan UT USA).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	C3H10T1/2 cells were infected at ~50% of confluent density with a recombinant adenovirus encoding MyoD as described  and muscle differentiation-promoting medium (DMEM and 2% horse serum (Hyclone)) was added 24 h later.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	C2 myoblasts were incubated at confluent cell density in muscle differentiation-promoting medium as described .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Cos-7 (ATCC #CRL-1651) and Hep3B cells (ATCC #HB-8064) were grown in DMEM and 10% FCS.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Ferric ammonium choride or the iron chelator deferoxamine (Sigma St. Louis MO USA) was added to medium for 24 h.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Recombinant adenoviruses	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Ad-MyoD Ad-tTA (tetracycline transactivator protein) Ad-HA-RGMc and Ad-HA-RGMc?GPI have been described .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	At 18 h after viral infection new medium was added (DMEM and 2% horse serum) containing the cell-impermeable pro-protein convertase inhibitor decanoyl-Arg-Val-Lys-Arg-chloromethyl-ketone [10 ?M] (RVKR Alexis Biochemicals San Diego CA USA) or DMSO.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Cells and medium were harvested over the next 24 h.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Hep3B cells were infected at ~50% confluent density with Ad-HA-RGMc or Ad-HA-RGMc?GPI and Ad-tTA and treated similarly.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Expression of RGMc mutants	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	We previously cloned a mouse RGMc cDNA from skeletal muscle cells .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The following codon changes were introduced into the cDNA by site-directed mutagenesis (Stratagene San Diego CA USA): R318G R321A R324A.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Mouse RGMc truncation mutants were made by PCR by replacing codons after R378 C354 S321 and Q305 with a 6Ã— His epitope tag and stop codon.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	These alterations correspond respectively to human JH-associated frame-shift mutations R385X C361fsX366 S328fsX337 and Q312X .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	DNA sequencing was used to confirm all nucleotide changes and the regions with mutations were subcloned into HA-RGMc in pcDNA3 .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Transient transfections were performed using 2 ?g of DNA/35 mm dish and RVKR or DMSO were added 18 h later.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Cells and medium were harvested after an additional 24 h.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Immunoblotting	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Conditions for preparation of whole cell protein lysates and culture medium SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting have been described .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Primary antibodies included: mouse RGMc (1:750 dilution)  HA (Covance Denver PA USA; 1:4000) ?-tubulin (Sigma 1:4000) His (Abcam Cambridge MA USA; 1:1000) and pan-cadherin (Cell Signaling Danvers MA USA; 1:1000).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Secondary antibodies included Alexa 680-conjugated anti-mouse IgG (Molecular Probes Eugene OR USA; 1:4000) and IRD 800-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (Rockland Gilbertsville PA USA; 1:4000).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Purification of RGMc	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	A total of 50 ?l was used for detection by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Cell-surface biotin labeling	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Monolayer cultures were incubated with EZ-link sulfo-NHS-biotin (1 mg/ml Pierce Rockford IL) for 30 min at 4Â°C followed by incubation in medium Â± RVKR 'pull-down' of protein extracts or culture medium with streptavidin-agarose and SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Incubation of RGMc with cells or recombinant furin	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Conditioned medium from cells expressing RGMc plus RVKR was dialyzed to remove inhibitor.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Aliquots (200 ?l) were added to Hep3B cells plus fresh RVKR or DMSO for 24 h at 37Â°C followed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Dialyzed medium (25 ?l) was incubated with 10 U recombinant human furin for 4 h at 30Â°C in 100 mM Hepes pH 7.4 1 mM CaCl2 and 0.5% Triton-X100 followed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Results	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	A pro-protein convertase inhibitor prevents accumulation of soluble 40 kDa RGMc	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	RGMc is produced by hepatocytes and striated muscle .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	We have detected RGMc on muscle cell membranes and have found that proteins of ~50 35 and 20 kDa are released into the extracellular fluid after incubation with bacterial PI-PLC  illustrating that RGMc is attached to the membrane by a GPI linkage.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The two smaller protein bands comprise a disulfide-linked heterodimer while the larger species is full-length single-chain RGMc .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Similar results have been observed for RGMc over-expressed in cell lines .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	RGMc also accumulates in medium conditioned by muscle cells as 50 and 40 kDa single-chain proteins  suggesting either direct secretion or release from the plasma membrane.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Here we investigate mechanisms responsible for the appearance of 40 kDa RGMc in extra-cellular fluid.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Full-length 50 kDa RGMc is a highly conserved protein with ~76% homology among the 7 mammalian species shown in Fig. 1A and many stretches of amino acid identity including the arginine-rich segment found between residues 318 and 327 in mouse RGMc (Fig. 1A) that is not conserved in RGMa or RGMb (Fig. 1B).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	This motif resembles a recognition and cleavage site for pro-protein convertases (PC).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	These enzymes PC1 PC2 furin PC4 PC5 PACE4 and PC7  cleave substrates at the COOH-terminal basic residue in the sequence (K/R)-(X)n -(K/R) where n = 0 2 4 or 6 amino acids and X is any residue except Cys or Pro .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Further study will be required to assess the mechanisms responsible for this variation.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	When muscle cells which produce RGMc  were incubated with the peptide PC inhibitor RVKR the 50 kDa species became the only RGMc protein in the medium (Fig. 1E) implicating PC activity in processing of endogenous RGMc.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Similar results were seen in undifferentiated mouse C2 myoblasts and in human Hep3B cells expressing HA-RGMc (Fig. 1F) although it should be noted that the same dose of RVKR was less effective in Hep3B cells in preventing accumulation of 40 kDa RGMc implying that there is more PC activity in this cell line.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Mapping the location of PC cleavage by analysis of JH-associated RGMc frame-shift mutations	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Several frame-shift mutations in human RGMc are associated with JH .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	We mimicked four of these mutants in NH2-terminal HA-tagged mouse RGMc and added a 6Ã— His tag to each COOH-terminus (Fig. 2A).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The mutant proteins when expressed in Cos-7 cells accumulated in culture medium but not on the cell membrane as they lacked a GPI attachment sequence (Fig. 2B and data not shown).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	A doublet was seen in the medium of cells producing the R378X and C354X mutants but only a single immunoreactive band with S321X and Q305X.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	As all protein species were detected with an antibody to the NH2-terminal HA tag this result suggests that the smaller mutant proteins (and 40 kDa RGMc derived from RGMc?GPI) may lack COOH-terminal residues (Fig. 2B).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	After incubation of cells with RVKR the larger member of the protein doublet for R378X and C354X increased in abundance in the medium and was recognized by an antibody to the COOH-terminal His tag while the smaller of the doublet bands was not (Fig. 2C).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Similar results were seen for RGMc?GPI (Fig. 2C).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In contrast detection of S321X and Q305X with the His antibody was constant and was unaffected by RVKR.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Taken together with observations in Fig. 1 the results with truncation mutants demonstrate that PC activity potentially removes a COOH-terminal segment of RGMc and indicate that the cleavage site is located between amino acids 321 and 354 of the mouse protein in agreement with identification of a conserved PC motif between residues 318 and 327 (Fig. 1A).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Altered processing of newly synthesized RGMc in the presence of PC inhibitor	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	To study effects of PC inhibition on RGMc biosynthesis and maturation we infected Hep3B cells with Ad-tTA and Ad-HA-RGMc.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Ad-tTA encodes a tetracycline-repressible transcriptional activator that stimulates the promoter regulating the gene for HA-RGMc.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Under these conditions full-length and heterodimeric RGMc were found on the cell membrane beginning at 8 h after viral infection and increased in abundance at 24 h.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	More membrane-associated RGMc was detected in RVKR-treated cells than in controls although there was no change in the pattern of immunoreactive proteins.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In culture medium 40 kDa RGMc accumulated starting at 8 h and the 50 kDa species was only seen after incubation of cells with RVKR (Fig. 3A).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	We used cell surface-labeling experiments to study the impact of PC inhibition on acute release of membrane-linked RGMc into the medium.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In Hep3B cells expressing HA-RGMc membrane proteins were labeled for 30 min with cell-impermeable biotin cross-linker followed by addition of RVKR or vehicle.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Release of RGMc from the cell surface was monitored by immunoblotting after streptavidin pull-down of culture medium.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Biotinylated 40 and 50 kDa RGMc were detected in medium at 2 and 4 h after labeling and more 50 kDa RGMc was seen with RVKR although the total amount of RGMc declined by ~35% (Fig. 3B).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	These results show that both 50 and 40 kDa soluble RGMc species derive from cell-associated 50 kDa RGMc and demonstrate that inhibition of PC activity diminishes but does not prevent release of membrane-linked RGMc into extracellular fluid.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Furin cleaves 50 kDa RGMc to produce a 40 kDa species	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	We destroyed putative PC recognition/cleavage sites in mouse RGMc by site-directed mutagenesis (glycine for arginine 318 alanines for arginines 321 and 324).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	When this mutant was expressed in Cos-7 cells only 50 kDa RGMc was detected in conditioned medium while wild type RGMc was processed to the 40 kDa species in the absence of RVKR but 50 kDa RGMc was seen when the inhibitor was added (Fig. 4A).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	PC activity may be found in intracellular compartments at the membrane and in the extra-cellular milieu .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	To determine where cleavage of 50 kDa RGMc may occur conditioned medium from Cos-7 cells expressing HA-RGMc was collected in the presence of RVKR and after dialysis to remove the inhibitor added to Hep3B cells.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Following incubation for 24 h significant conversion to 40 kDa RGMc was observed but was not seen when RVKR was added (Fig. 4B) indicating that these cells produce PCs that act extra-cellularly.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The R-N-R-R sequence in RGMc (Fig. 1A) represents an optimal furin site .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In agreement with this idea incubation of 50 kDa RGMc with recombinant furin in vitro led to its efficient cleavage into a 40 kDa species with an intact NH2-terminus as shown by detection with both anti-HA and anti-RGMc antibodies (Fig. 4C).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Thus by several criteria 50 kDa RGMc is a PC substrate.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Effects of iron on processing of RGMc and its release from the cell membrane	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Recent work has shown that delivery of iron to cultured cells resulted in a decline in abundance of extra-cellular RGMc 24 h later .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	To address effects of iron on membrane-bound RGMc adenoviral-infected Hep3B cells were incubated with ferric ammonium citrate briefly labeled with cell-impermeable biotin cross-linker and examined for accumulation of RGMc on the cell membrane and in the medium.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	As seen in Fig. 5A iron loading led to a dose-dependent increase in cell surface-associated 50 kDa RGMc and to a decline in abundance of the 40 kDa species in the medium (~50% decrease at 100 ?g/ml ferric ammonium citrate).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In addition the amount of 50 kDa soluble RGMc increased.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In agreement with these results incubation of cells with the iron chelator deferoxamine prevented accumulation of 50 kDa RGMc in culture medium and led to a ~30% rise in the amount of soluble 40 kDa RGMc compared with cells incubated with ferric ammonium citrate (Fig. 5B).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Thus iron delivery appears to negatively regulate release of RGMc from the membrane and may also inhibit PC activity.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In this regard Silvestri et al have found that deferoxamine enhanced and iron loading decreased the abundance of furin in HeLa cells .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Discussion	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	As is evident from cell-surface binding experiments both molecules originate from cell-membrane-associated GPI-linked single-chain RGMc (Fig. 3) and the 40 kDa isoform is derived from the 50 kDa species by targeted proteolysis mediated by PCs such as furin (Fig. 4) with cleavage occurring at a site that is highly conserved among RGMc orthologues but is absent in the paralogues RGMa and RGMb (Fig. 1).	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Taken together our results define a key role for PCs in the regulation of RGMc that has implications for the physiological effects of this critical iron-regulatory protein.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Are there specific biological effects of different RGMc protein species?	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The biological actions of RGMc are not yet fully defined.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	A role for RGMc in iron homeostasis is postulated based on the discovery of multiple mutations in the HJV gene in patients with JH  and on the iron overload phenotype in mice lacking hjv .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Loss of RGMc is associated with severe reduction in hepcidin  a critical negative regulator of iron absorption placing RGMc upstream in a pathway controlling hepcidin production in the liver .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Cell-associated RGMc can enhance effects of BMPs to increase hepcidin gene expression potentially through direct binding to BMP2 and 4  but it is not known if these actions are mediated by single-chain or heterodimeric RGMc.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	In contrast soluble RGMc appears to inhibit production of hepcidin mRNA .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	It is not known if 50 or 40 kDa soluble RGMc proteins preferentially bind to BMPs or if they have other actions although a recent report showed that soluble 40 kDa RGMc blunted stimulation of hepcidin gene expression by BMP2 in cultured cells .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	This latter observation indicates that PC activity may influence the biological actions of RGMc.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Does iron regulate RGMc?	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Serum levels of RGMc were shown to transiently increase in acutely iron-deficent rats  and incubation of cultured cells with holo-transferrin for 24 ?	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	48 h caused a reduction in RGMc in the medium .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	This latter effect was attributed to a decline in the extent of shedding of membrane-linked RGMc .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	We find in agreement with these results that iron loading increased the amount of single-chain RGMc on the cell membrane and caused a commensurate decline in accumulation of 40 kDa RGMc in the extra-cellular fluid while the abundance of the soluble 50 kDa species increased.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Additional work will be needed to define the mechanisms by which iron alters the biogenesis and processing of RGMc although as suggested by Silvestri et al  one possibility may be through control of furin production.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Conclusion	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	RGMc pro-protein convertases and iron metabolism	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	The key observation in this manuscript is that a furin-like PC cleaves 50 kDa full-length single-chain RGMc at a conserved site to produce a 40 kDa soluble species.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	We find that PC activity leads to the accumulation of 40 kDa RGMc in medium of skeletal muscle cells which endogenously synthesize RGMc  and in medium of several cell types expressing recombinant RGMc.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Moreover we show directly that purified recombinant furin can cleave 50 kDa RGMc in vitro.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Recent reports from others also implicate PCs in the cleavage of RGMc .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Using Hek293 stably expressing human hemojuvelin/RGMc Lin et al have found that a PC inhibitor blocks that appearance of a soluble form of the protein (sHJV) with a larger species (ecto-HJV) probably equivalent to 50 kDa mouse RGMc accumulating instead .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Silvestri et al have made similar observations in transfected HeLa cells .	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	A model summarizing our results on processing of membrane-associated RGMc is depicted in Fig. 6.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	As other studies indicate that furin may be involved in processing and maturation of several iron regulating proteins including hepcidin BMPs and the soluble transferrin receptor  these observations when taken together imply a diverse and potentially important role for PCs in iron homeostasis.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	Authors' contributions	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	DK helped conceive of the study performed experiments on RGMc purification and detection analyzed effects of furin and iron and helped draft the manuscript.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	RK-H contributed to studies on RGMc amino acid substitution and truncation mutations and helped draft the manuscript.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	MN generated and studied RGMc truncation mutants.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	PR helped conceive of the study helped in the design and analysis of experiments and drafted the manuscript.	0
Soluble HJV have been detected in serum and blood on human and mouse (40 and 50 kDa peptides) by immunoaffinity purification.	All authors read and approved the manuscript.	0
