Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Thus there is a need to develop method for predicting 'ATP interacting residues' in a protein in order to understand protein-ATP interaction.	1
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In the past it has been shown that the evolutionary information provided more information than protein sequence thus we have also used evolutionary information in the form of PSSM profile for developing a prediction method.	3
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	If the central residue of the pattern was a 'ATP interacting residue' then we assigned the pattern as positive pattern (ATP interacting) otherwise it was assigned as negative pattern (non-ATP interacting).	1
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This means that evolutionary information for each amino acid is encapsulated in a vector of 21 dimensions where the size of PSSM matrix of a protein with M residues is 21 × M where M is the length of the target sequence and each element represents the frequency of occurrence of each of the 20 amino acids and one dummy amino acid "X" at one position in the alignment .	1
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This parameter allows computation of the percentage of correctly predicted ATP interacting residues.	1
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This parameter allows computation of the percentage of correctly predicted non-ATP interacting residues.	1
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Percentage of correctly predicted ATP interacting and non-interacting residues	1
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Our SVM module predict a score for each residue in protein (in range of -1.0 to 1.0) we define a threshold to discriminate ATP interacting and non-interacting residues.	4
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In this study the evolutionary information in the form of PSSM profile has been used for predicting ATP interacting protein residues.	4
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Each element of PSSM matrix was normalized before using it as an input feature of SVM module.	5
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	These results indicated that the evolutionary information was very important for predicting ATP interacting residues as performance increase significantly from MCC 0.33 to 0.51.	2
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The performance of SVM model based on evolutionary information is shown by ROC plot in Figure 2 which indicates an improvement from AUC 0.725 to 0.823 and thereby clearly suggesting that SVM model based on PSSM profile perform better than module based on single sequence.	4
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In this study an attempt has been made to predict ATP interacting residue in a protein with high accuracy.	4
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Thus SVM based model has been developed for predicting ATP interacting residues in a protein from its primary structure and achieved reasonable accuracy.	4
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	As PSSM based evolutionary information provide better information hence we also made an attempt to develop method using evolutionary information for predicting ATP interacting residues.	4
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The performance of SVM module increases significantly when evolutionary information is in place of single sequence.	4
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In this study we have develop method for the first time for predicting ATP interacting residues in a protein from its protein sequence using SVM based model.	4
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It was observed that the evolutionary information (PSSM) based SVM modules perform better than the single sequence based modules.	4
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Background	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is an important molecule in cell biology as an energy molecule and coenzyme.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This molecule interacts with large number of proteins during cellular activities and plays a crucial role in various biological reactions.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	ATP binding proteins (ABPs) have a binding site that allows ATP molecule to interact.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This binding sites is a micro-environment where ATP is captured and hydrolyzed to ADP releasing energy which is utilized by the protein to "do work" by changing the shape of the protein and/or making the enzyme catalytically active.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	These proteins are powered by the hydrolysis of ATP and convert this chemical energy for mechanical work .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Many ATP Binding proteins are transmembrane proteins and responsible for transport of a wide variety of substrates (e.g. lipids sterols) across extra and intracellular membranes .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In summary ATP binding proteins have important roles in membrane transport muscle contraction cellular motility and regulation of various metabolic processes.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Thus it is important to identify ATP binding proteins and 'ATP interacting residues' in these proteins.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The experimental identification of residues that interacts with ATP in a protein is costly and time consuming.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Thus there is need to use alternate techniques such as computational technique which have been used successfully for predicting function of proteins .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In past methods have been developed for the prediction of polynucleotide (DNA/RNA) interacting residues .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Saito et al  developed a general method for predicting nucleotide-binding sites in a protein which successfully predicts 31% ATP binding sites (not ATP interacting residues).	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	To the best of our knowledge no prediction method has been developed for detecting specifically the residues interacting with ATP from a protein sequence.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In this study a systematic attempt has been made to develop a highly accurate and reliable method for predicting 'ATP interacting residues' in a protein.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Initially Support Vector Machine (SVM) based models have been developed using proteins sequence.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	All the models developed in this study were evaluated using five-fold cross validation technique.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Methods	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Datasets	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We extract 360 ATP binding protein chains from SuperSite encyclopedia .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	After removing the redundant sequences using the program CD-HIT a total of 267 non-redundant PDB chains were obtained where no two sequences have more than 40% identity.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In the next step we examined these proteins using software Ligand Protein Contact (LPC)  and remove those proteins which are not ATP binding proteins according to LPC.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Our final dataset have 168 non-redundant ATP binding protein chains available at http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/atpint/atpdatasetFive-fold cross-validation	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Evaluation of a newly developed method is a major challenge for researchers.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	One of the commonly used techniques for evaluating a model is jack-knife or leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In this technique one sequence is used for testing and remaining sequences for training this process is repeated in such a way that each sequence is used once for testing.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Though this is the best technique for evaluation it is time consuming and computer intensive.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Thus we have used 5-fold cross-validation in this study where sequences were randomly divided into five sets.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	One set was used for testing and the remaining four sets were used for training.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This process was repeated five times in such a way that each set was used once for testing .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The final performance was obtained by averaging the performance of all five sets.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Pattern or window size	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have generated overlapping patterns (segments) of different window sizes from 7 to 25 for every ATP binding protein sequences.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	To generate the pattern corresponding to the terminal residues in a protein sequence we have added (L-1)/2 dummy residue "X" at both terminals of protein (where L is the length of pattern) .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	As an example for window size 17 we have added 8 "X" before N-terminal and 8 "X" after C-terminal in order to create M patterns from sequence of length M .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Finally we have obtained a total of 3056 unique windows/patterns of length 17 out of 3082 ATP interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Support Vector Machine (SVM)	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In most of our studies including this one we have implemented SVM using SVM light  which is freely downloadable package from http://svmlight.joachims.org/.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	SVM is a machine learning approach based on structural risk minimization principle of statistics learning theory .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The main reason of using this package frequently by us is that it allows implementing various kernels and parameters.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Position Specific Scoring Matrix (PSSM)	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In this work PSSM profiles were generated using PSI-BLAST  where a protein sequence was searched against SWISS-PROT dataset using E-value cut-off of 0.001.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This profile contains the probability of occurrence of each type of amino acid at each position along with insertion/deletion.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Hence PSSM is considered as a measure of residue conservation in a given location.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Structural feature	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In this study we have used following seven important structural feature as SVM input feature -	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Hydrophobicity	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The hydrophobicity effect is often a major contributor of binding affinity between a protein and its ligand.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	All Hydrophobicity calculations were obtained from FauchÃ¨re and Pliska scale .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Beta-Sheet	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Many nucleotide-binding proteins having a P-loop or phosphate-binding loop is an ATP binding site motif.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It is a glycine-rich loop preceded by a beta sheet.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Thus the Beta-Sheet may be important feature in the ATP binding protein.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It is obtained from Chou and Fasman scale .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Polarity	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Polarity is a separation of electric charge leading to a molecule having an electric dipole.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It results from the uneven partial charge distribution between various amino acids in a protein.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have used Grantham R polarity scale values .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Solvation potential	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The solvation potential is an important parameter of proteins that gives an idea about the preference of amino acid residues to be exposed to solvent or buried in the interface.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	For calculation of solvent potential for each amino acid we have used Jones et al scale .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Residue interface propensities	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The residue interface propensity is an important feature of protein binding sites that shows the propensity of each amino acid residues in the interface area.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Residue interface propensities for each of the 20 amino acids were computed from Jones and Thornton .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Net charge	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The surface of a protein has a net charge that depends on the number and identities of the charged amino acids and on pH.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	At a specific pH the positive and negative charges will balance and the net charge will be zero.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Net charge of amino acid obtained from Klein et al .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Average accessible surface area	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The accessible surface area is the surface area of a protein that is accessible to another protein or ligand.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The average accessible surface area scale values of each amino acid were obtained from Janin et al .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	All the above features parameter scale values were taken from http://www.genome.jp/aaindex and used as input features in SVM.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Evaluation Parameter	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	For evaluation of the performance of methods we have used standard parameter that is routinely used in this type field.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Following is a brief description of the threshold dependent parameters which was used for evaluation.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Sensitivity	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Specificity	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Accuracy	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Matthews's Correlation Coefficient (MCC)	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It is the statistical parameter to assess the quality of prediction and to take care of the unbalancing in data.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	An MCC equal to 1 is regarded as a perfect prediction whereas for a completely random prediction this value becomes 0.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Where TP is the number of correctly predicted ATP interacting residues TN is the number of correctly predicted non-interacting residues FP is the number of non-interacting residues predicted as interacting residues and FN is the number of interacting residues wrongly predicted as non-interacting.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	All the parameters described above are threshold dependent parameters thus performance of a model depend on threshold.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In order to provide the comprehensive view of performance of a model we have calculated these parameters on different threshold (range from +1 to -1).	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Area under the ROC Curve (AUC)	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	All the measures described above have a common drawback that their performance depends on threshold selected.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	A known threshold independent parameter is Receiver Operating Curve (ROC).	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It is a plot between true positive proportion (TP/TP+FN) and false positive proportion (FP/FP+TN).	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have used SPSS package to plot ROC and calculate AUC.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Results	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Composition analysis	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have analyzed the composition of interacting and non-interacting residues by computing the amino acid composition of 17 amino acid pattern where the central residue was interacting or non-interacting and observed that the occurrence of Gly and positively charged amino acids Arg Lys and His were significantly different in ATP interacting residue and non-interacting residues (Figure 1) with respective p-value 0.00186 0.00862 0.00254 and 0.07941.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It can be inferred that the Gly and positively charged amino acids are important for the interaction with ATP.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Beside above residues significant compositional difference was observed for following residues Leu Pro Ala and Val with p-value 0.00511 0.00011 0.00049 and 0.02253 respectively (Table S1; see in Additional file ).	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It shows that non-polar and hydrophobic amino acid residues such as Val Leu are important in protein-ATP binding.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have used two-tailed unpaired T-test to check the significant in difference of amino acid compositions in binding and non-binding residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Prediction using BLAST	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	One of the methods which is routinely used for predicting function of a new protein sequence is BLAST.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It is a similarity based method and identifies segments/regions in the query sequences which are similar to the target sequence.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This method can be used to predict ATP interacting residues in a protein by searching a query protein against database of ATP-binding proteins.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In order to evaluate the performance of BLAST on dataset used in this study we have searched each ATP binding protein chain against remaining ATP binding protein chains.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It was observed that only 71 ATP interacting protein chains showed similarity (BLAST hit) with other ATP binding protein chains.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Thus BLAST cannot be used to predict any ATP interacting residues in 97 ATP binding protein chains out of 168 chains in our dataset.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In order to evaluate performance of BLAST on those protein chains which showed similarity we randomly picked 10 proteins which have similarity with other ATP-binding protein chains.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Even on these proteins the performance of BLAST was very poor where the sensitivity was 44% and the probability of correct prediction was 43.37%.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This result suggests that BLAST is not suitable for predicting ATP interacting residues in a protein.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	SVM Modules using single sequence	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It has been shown in previous studies on nucleotide interacting proteins that they perform best for 17-window size (pattern length) .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Thus we have used pattern length 17 for developing our prediction model.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	All possible overlapping peptides of 17 amino acids were generated from ATP binding proteins/chains a peptide/pattern is assigned ATP interacting or positive if the residue at its center is ATP interacting otherwise it was assigned as negative.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	After classifying them as positive and negative patterns they were converted into binary patterns.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The peptide of length N was represented by a vector of dimensions N Ã— 21 where each residue is represented by a vector of dimension 21 (e.g. Ala by 100000000000000000000; Cys by 010000000000000000000); contains 20 amino acids and one dummy amino acid "X".	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The performance of SVM module developed using a single sequence for window size 17 is shown in Table 1.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have also tried various window sizes from 7 to 25 residues and observed that 17 window size patterns gave better performance (Table 2).	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have achieved 66.25% accuracy with minimum difference between sensitivity and specificity and MCC 0.33 by 17 window patterns (Table 1) at threshold 0.0.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Normally we select a threshold where sensitivity and specificity are nearly equal in order to make the balance between sensitivity and specificity.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The performance of SVM model for window size 17 using single sequence is shown in Figure 2.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have achieved AUC 0.725 which was significantly better than random (AUC 0.5).	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	SVM Modules using evolutionary information	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In the past it has been shown in several studies that evolutionary information gives more information about a protein than single sequence .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The PSSM profile for each sequence was generated using PSI-BLAST where sequence was search against of SWISS-PROT.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The performance of SVM module that was developed using PSSM at different threshold is shown in Table 3.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have achieved maximum MCC 0.51 with accuracy 75.25% at threshold -0.1.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	SVM Module based on physico-chemical parameters	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In this study we have also developed SVM module using various physico-chemical features which are important for protein structure and function.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Seven physico-chemical parameters have been used for this (see methods section).	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We have normalized these parameters  before using them for developing SVM classifier.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Performance of SVM Module based on physico-chemical parameters is shown in Table 4.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	As shown in Table 4 performance (maximum MCC 0.26) was lower than SVM module based on sequence.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Discussion	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The ATP interacting proteins play a significant role in signaling pathways in which ATP is used as a substrate by kinases that phosphorylate proteins.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The identification of ATP interacting residues is difficult using experimental techniques.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	There is a need for developing computational techniques for identifying ATP interacting residues in a protein from its protein sequence.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Saito et al  developed a general method for predicting binding site using empirical scores system.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Though this method allows detection of ATP binding sites on a protein with low accuracy but provides no information about ATP interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	There are methods which allow identifying ATP interacting residues in a protein if its structure is known .	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	These methods are basically assignment method which assign ATP interacting residues in a PDB file.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	One of the obvious question arise can we used existing techniques for predicting ATP interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	First we used BLAST for predicting ATP interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	As shown in result section we obtained poor performance both in terms of sensitivity and probability of correct prediction.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Thus the routinely used similarity search technique like BLAST is not suitable for this problem.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In the next step we examine motif-based techniques for predicting ATP interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We search motifs using FingerPRINTScan  in 168 ATP binding protein chains used in this study and got motifs only in 54 proteins.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	No motif was found in the remaining 114 proteins.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	These motifs only cover around 11% ATP interacting residues (Table S2; see in Additional file) and no common motif was found in ATP binding protein (Table S3; see in Additional file).	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	These results shows that motifs based method cannot be used for identifying of ATP interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This study is a systematic attempt to understand and predict ATP interacting residues in a protein First we analyzed ATP interacting residues and its neighbors and found that there is a significant difference in interacting and non-interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This means ATP interacting residues can be predicted using any machine leaning techniques.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	It has been shown in previous studies that SVM perform better than other artificial intelligence technique particularly on small dataset.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This demonstrates that evolutionary information is important for predicting ATP interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	In this study we used window size 17; the question arises why we have used 17.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Though window size 17 is frequently used in prediction of secondary structure of interacting residues it does not mean that window size 17 is applicable to each problem.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	One should try different window size in order to find out optimize window size for a given problem.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We try various window sizes from 7 to 25 residues for predicting ATP interacting residues and achieved maximum performance for window size 17.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Although accuracy of binary pattern of 25 window size is better than 17 but difference in sensitivity and specificity is much higher.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This means that window size 17 is most suitable for predicting ATP interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This is first study of this kind so it is difficult to compare its performance with existing methods.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We hope this study will be useful for researchers working in this area.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	There is a high probability that other researcher will work on this problem and will develop better method.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Conclusion	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Though it has been shown in number of previous studies that the evolutionary information is important for predicting the structural component of a protein first time we have demonstrated that the evolutionary information is also important for predicting ATP interacting residues.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	One of the major features of this study is that we are providing web service for predicting ATP interacting residues in a protein.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Our web-server; ATPint allows users to identify ATP binding residue using the best model trained on our data set.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This server will help the experimental biologist to predict ATP interacting residue from its primary sequence and avoid the number of essential experiments.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Competing interests	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The authors declare that they have no competing interests.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Web Server	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	We developed a web server "ATPint" using CGI-Perl 5.8.4 script to predict of ATP interacting proteins which is available at http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/atpint.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	This server allows users to predict ATP interacting proteins using PSSM based SVM models.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	User can select any threshold within -1 to +1 by default it is 0.2.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	The prediction result presented in graphical form where the predicted ATP interacting and non-interacting are displayed in different color.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	Authors' contributions	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	JSC created dataset and developed the SVM models and NKM re-checked these models and datasets.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	JSC NKM created the backend web server and the front end user interface.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	GPSR conceived the project coordinated it and refined the final manuscript drafted by JSC and NKM.	0
Recently, Chauhan et al., employed SVM to predict the ATP binding residues in ATP binding proteins using amino acid sequence and their evolutionary profiles.	All authors have read and approved this manuscript.	0
