For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In an effort to investigate how loss of deneddylation affects SCF activity we conditionally silenced the catalytic subunit of CSN in mammalian cells.	2
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Suppression of Csn5 protein resulted in a significant decrease in the F-box proteins Skp2 cyclin F Fbx7 Fbx4 and Fbw7.	4
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Moreover mRNA transcripts for all but one of these F-box proteins were unaltered when CSN5 was suppressed suggesting the decreases in protein levels are post-translational.	4
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Consistent with this notion treatment with proteasome inhibitors largely restored the levels of multiple F-box proteins and dominant-negative Cul1 prevented loss of cyclin F.	5
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Eight days of doxycycline treatment of cells carrying the inducible Csn5-specific shRNA resulted in a drastic reduction in both Csn5 mRNA and protein levels when compared to induced cells expressing a scrambled shRNA (Figures 1A and 1B).	2
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Loss of Csn5 resulted in enhanced neddylation of all four cullins although to varying extents (Figure 1D).	5
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Loss of deneddylation causes a reduction in F-box protein levels	3
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Concomitant with loss of Csn5 we observed significant decreases in the steady-state protein levels of Skp2 cyclin F Fbw7 Fbx4 and Fbx7 (Figure 2A).	5
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Despite the significant drop in protein levels there was little change in mRNA levels suggesting that for 4 of the 5 F-box proteins examined (Fbx4 being the exception) the loss of protein was due to reduced translation or increased degradation (Figure 2B).	3
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	The protein levels of Fbx4 could not be rescued by overexpression of wild-type mouse CSN5 suggesting that loss of Fbx4 arose from a promiscuous effect of the CSN5-directed siRNA and was not due to Csn5 knockdown (data not shown) Therefore the reduction in Skp2 and cyclin F levels in Csn5-depleted cells is caused by the loss of CSN isopeptidase activity.	2
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Therefore the loss of F-box proteins in Csn5-depleted cells appears to depend largely upon the 26S proteasome.	4
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Here we report that suppression of Csn5 in human cells resulted in a decrease in steady-state F-box protein levels.	5
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Loss of Csn5 causes both loss of deneddylation activity and loss of CRL-associated deubiquitination activity mediated by the deubiquitinating enzyme Ubp12 .	5
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Ubiquitination and turnover of CRL substrate receptor proteins is suppressed by Ubp12 and thus it is possible that the loss of F-box proteins that we observed in Csn5-depleted cells was due to loss of either deneddylation by Csn5 and/or F-box protein deubiquitination by Ubp12.	3
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In Csn5-depleted cells the inactivation process is not initiated and therefore the F-box protein remains constitutively associated with a highly active neddylated cullin-RING catalytic core resulting in a high rate of F-box protein ubiquitination and degradation.	3
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Given the substantial reduction in the steady-state levels of multiple F-box proteins upon depletion of Csn5 it is surprising that depleted cells continued to proliferate with normal cell cycle kinetics and did not exhibit a dramatic phenotype.	2
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Background	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Proteins are marked for degradation by the 26S proteasome via the covalent attachment of chains of the 76-amino acid protein ubiquitin [reviewed in ].	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	This process involves three discreet steps.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	First ubiquitin is activated by the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme (E1) through the hydrolysis of ATP to AMP to yield a high energy thioester intermediate between the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and the catalytic cysteine of the E1.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Subsequently ubiquitin is transferred onto the catalytic cysteine of one of many ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2) which in turn transfer their cargo onto substrates with the help of ubiquitin ligase enzymes (E3).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	One of the best-studied E3 ubiquitin ligase enzymes is the four subunit complex SCF [reviewed in ].	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	SCF consists of two activities: the first contained within the Cul1 and RING domain Hrt1/Roc1/Rbx1 proteins is the ability to recruit and activate the E2 to facilitate ubiquitin transfer from the E2 onto substrate; the second resides within the variable F-box proteins which are linked to Cul1 via Skp1 and are thought to recruit substrates for ubiquitination by the Cul1/Hrt1 sub-complex.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	The large number of different F-box proteins gives SCF the opportunity to access a wide array of substrates.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In yeast over 19 F-box proteins are known in A. thaliana over 400 and in humans ~70 .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	The family of SCF ligases in turn is the prototype for a superfamily of cullin-RING ligases that like SCF are modular enzymes comprising a cullin-RING subcomplex linked to a variable substrate receptor subunit (VHL box proteins for Cul2 BTB proteins for Cul3 and SOCS box proteins for Cul5).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Altogether the human genome may have the capacity to code for as many as 350 different CRLs.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Given the diversity of CRL substrate receptor proteins two important questions emerge.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	First how is the repertoire of CRLs dynamically controlled?	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Second are distinct CRL complexes differentially regulated in a manner that depends on the identity of the substrate receptor?	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	One partial answer to both of these questions is that F-box and other substrate receptors are often unstable proteins and it is thought that they are targeted for degradation in part by 'autoubiquitination' within SCF-E2 complexes .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	However not all CRL substrate receptors are unstable and thus there must be some means of differentially controlling their stability.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	There are multiple ways in which this might be accomplished.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	First CRL ubiquitin ligase activity is negatively regulated by Cop9 Signalosome (CSN) in vitro .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	CSN cleaves the ubiquitin-like protein Nedd8 from the cullin subunit of CRLs .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Attachment of Nedd8 to Cul1 strongly stimulates the ability of the Cul1-Hrt1/Roc1/Rbx1 catalytic core to promote ubiquitin chain synthesis by Cdc34 E2 enzyme .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Once Nedd8 is detached CAND1 can bind Cul1 and displace Skp1 thereby preventing the recruitment of substrate to the catalytic core .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In addition to removing Nedd8 CSN also recruits a deubiquitinating enzyme to Cul1 Ubp12 that opposes ubiquitin polymerization .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Thus CSN may play a key role in controlling the dynamics of individual CRL complexes and the overall repertoire of different CRL complexes in a cell.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	CSN is a highly conserved protein complex found from yeast to humans.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	CSN is composed of eight subunits termed Csn1-Csn8  and each of these subunits contains high homology to components of the 26S proteasome lid subcomplex and eukaryotic Initiation Factor 3 (eIF3) [reviewed in ].	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	CSN has been found to play diverse roles in several different organisms [reviewed in ].	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In A. thaliana CSN components were identified in a screen for plants that displayed a constitutive photomorphogenic defect (plants develop in the dark as they would in the light).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In D. melanogaster mutations in Csn4 and Csn5 result in pleitropic effects including activation of meiotic checkpoints  and failure of photoreceptor neurons to differentiate .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	RNAi of Csn5 in C. elegans additionally results in pleitropic effects including sterile worms and alterations in microtubules .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Although the molecular basis behind many of these phenotypes has yet to be elucidated it is becoming evident that deneddylation of cullins catalyzed by the 'JAMM' metalloprotease active site motif in the Csn5 subunit is at least partially responsible.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Transgenic csn5 with mutations in the JAMM motif fails to correct the developmental defects of csn5-delete flies .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Moreover failure to deneddylate Cul3 in C. elegans is implicated in accumulation of the microtubule severing protein Mei-1 which results in microtubule defects .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	The effects of loss of deneddylation of cullin proteins are still not understood.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Loss of CSN function causes a defect in cullin-based ligase activity in vivo suggesting that deneddylation promotes SCF activity .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	However in vitro data suggests a negative role for CSN in regulation of SCF .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	What may account for this discrepancy?	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	One hypothesis suggests that neddylation and deneddylation affect cycles of assembly of CRL complexes and the stability of substrate adaptor proteins in vivo .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Finally we found a dramatic increase in the protein and activity levels of the SCFFbw7 substrate cyclin E suggesting that loss of F-box proteins in CSN-deficient cells results in substrate accumulation.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Results	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Depletion of CSN5 in HEK293 cells is not lethal	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	To analyze the effect of loss of deneddylation in human cells we utilized the doxycyline-inducible shRNA system developed by Clevers and colleagues  to conditionally down-regulate Csn5 protein levels.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	By contrast the levels of other CSN subunits showed little or no change (Figure 1C).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Despite this significant drop in Csn5 protein levels few morphological changes were observed the cells continued to grow and divide and little change in steady-state cell cycle distribution was detected by FACS (data not shown).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	This is consistent with prior observations on normal diploid BJ1 fibroblasts depleted of Csn5 .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Given that loss of CSN function results in accumulation of the neddylated form of cullins in yeast Drosophila and C. elegans we analyzed the endogenous cullins 1?4 by western blot in human cells depleted of Csn5.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	The failure to observe complete conversion of all cullins to the neddylated species ? as was seen for Cul1 in csn1?	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	S. pombe cells  ? may be due to residual Csn5 activity an alternative cullin deneddylase limiting Nedd8 attachment activity or the sequestration of deneddylated cullins into complexes with CAND1 .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Despite the change in Nedd8 modification the total levels of cullins 1?4 were largely unaltered in Csn5-depeleted human cells except for a modest reduction in the level of Cul2.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	It has been proposed that loss of deneddylation could render F-box adaptor proteins unstable .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	To test this hypothesis we analyzed the levels of several endogenous F-box proteins in cells depleted of Csn5.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In this experiment and throughout this report we focused our effort on endogenous proteins to avoid potential artifacts associated with overexpression of recombinant proteins.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	To test whether this decrease in protein levels was post-transcriptional we performed RT-PCR on the corresponding mRNA transcripts.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Interestingly two F-box proteins ?-TrCP and Emi1 showed little or no change in protein level when Csn5 was suppressed (data not shown).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	To determine if the decrease in F-box protein levels was specific and due to loss of JAMM isopeptidase activity we ectopically expressed mouse Csn5 in cells depleted of endogenous Csn5 by shRNA.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Transfection of wild-type mouse CSN5 cDNA which differs by two nucleotides from human CSN5 in the region that is targeted by the silencing shRNA restored wild-type levels of both Skp2 and cyclin F (Figure 3B).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In contrast expression of two different JAMM point mutants of mouse Csn5 failed to restore Skp2 and cyclin F protein levels despite normal levels of expression of the mutant proteins (Figure 3B).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Loss of F-box proteins is dependent on the ubiquitin-proteasome system	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	We next examined whether the 26S proteasome was involved in the reduction of F-box protein levels.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Treatment of Csn5-depleted cells with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 largely restored normal levels of Fbx7 cyclin F and Fbw7 whereas Skp2 levels were only partially rescued (Figure 3A).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	By contrast the loss of Fbx4 was not reversed by proteasome inhibition which is consistent with our prior observation that Csn5 shRNA non-specifically diminished the levels of Fbx4 transcripts.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Similar results were obtained for all proteins when we used the proteasome inhibitor LLnL.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	The role of the proteasome in mediating the loss of F-box proteins in Csn5-depleted cells suggested that Csn5 might normally protect F-box proteins within SCF complexes from being 'autoubiquitinated' by the associated E2 enzyme and then degraded.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	To address this possibility we sought to examine the levels of a representative F-box protein in cells in which Csn5 was depleted and SCF activity was simultaneously inhibited.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	A C-terminal truncation mutant of Cul1 [Cul1 (1?428)] possesses dominant-negative activity .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	To determine if the loss of cyclin F in Csn5-depleted cells was SCF dependent we transiently expressed either wild-type or Cul1 (1?428) in doxycycline-induced cells.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Whereas expression of full length Cul1 did not alter cyclin F accumulation expression of Cul1 (1?428) restored cyclin F to levels comparable to those seen in untreated cells (Figure 3C).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	These data indicate that loss of cyclin F was dependent upon an intact SCF complex.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Loss of Fbw7 results in a marked increase in substrate levels	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Given the reduction in Fbw7 levels in Csn5-depleted cells we analyzed two substrates of SCFFbw7 ? cyclin E and c-myc ? to see if they were stabilized.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Down-regulation of Csn5 resulted in accumulation of both c-myc and cyclin E (Figure 4A) as well as cyclin E-associated histone H1 kinase activity (Figure 4B).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Moreover depletion of Csn5 resulted in a loss of cell cycle regulation of cyclin E protein abundance (Figure 4C) which is consistent with a defect in cyclin E turnover.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Overexpression of a non-degradable form of cyclin E results in chromosome instability .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	To examine chromosome stability in Csn5-depleted cells we induced cells for 21 days with doxycycline and examined them for chromosome abnormalities by FISH and karyotyping.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Despite a significant increase in cyclin E we could not detect any chromosomal abnormalities (data not shown).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Discussion	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	CSN downregulates the activity of SCF ubiquitin ligase in biochemical reconstitution assays  whereas loss of CSN components in several different organisms causes a defect in SCF activity in vivo .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	To understand the basis for these paradoxical observations we investigated the nature of SCF complexes in cells deprived of CSN activity.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	This decrease was post-transcriptional stemmed from loss of the metallopeptidase activity of Csn5 and was largely proteasome-dependent.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	For cyclin F the reduction in levels was blocked by a dominant-negative mutant of Cul1.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	As a consequence of the decline in F-box protein levels ligands that are targeted for degradation by these F-box proteins are expected to accumulate.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Indeed both cyclin E and c-myc substrates of SCFFbw7 accumulated in Csn5-depleted cells.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Although our study focused on F-box substrate receptor subunits of SCF we anticipate that depletion of Csn5 will have similar consequences for VHL box BTB domain and SOCS box proteins that deliver substrates to Cul2 Cul3 and Cul5 respectively.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	However expression of Csn5 carrying point mutations in the JAMM motif did not restore cyclin F or Skp2 protein levels in cells depleted of endogenous Csn5 (Figure 3B) even though human CSN complexes bearing a mutated JAMM domain possess associated deubiquitinating activity equivalent to that of wild type CSN .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Thus we propose that loss of CSN-dependent deneddylation is sufficient to bring about a reduction of steady-state F-box protein levels in human cells.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	The exact mechanism by which the substrate adaptors are turned over in Csn5-depleted cells is unknown.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	However the stimulatory effect of neddylation on SCF activity in vitro  and the restoration of cyclin F levels by dominant-negative Cul1 in Csn5-depleted cells suggests an autocatalytic mechanism wherein an F-box protein is ubiquitinated by the neddylated Cul1-Hrt1 catalytic module present in the same SCF complex.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	We propose that once an SCF ubiquitin ligase exhausts its pool of available substrate deneddylation of the Cul1 subunit by CSN brings about disassembly of the complex with the end result being that the Skp1-F-box heterodimer is released and Cul1-Hrt1 are sequestered into an inactive assemblage with CAND1.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Interestingly whereas most F-box proteins that we examined (e.g. cyclin F) exhibited a significant decline in levels upon depletion of Csn5 others (?-TrCP Emi1) were not affected (G.A.C. unpublished data).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	We do not understand the basis for this difference but it is unlikely to reflect whether a given F-box protein is turned over in normal cells because ?-TrCP levels were not reduced in Csn5-depleted cells even though transfected ?-TrCP is turned over with a reasonably brisk half-life of ~120 minutes .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Clearly more work is needed to determine why accumulation of only some F-box proteins depends upon CSN.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	For example overexpression of cyclin E  or deletion of Fbw7  causes chromosomal instability but we were unable to detect any measurable defect in chromosome status in Csn5-depleted cells (data not shown).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Given that depletion of Csn5 can affect so many different F-box proteins and presumably SOCS/BC box and BTB domain proteins as well it is possible that opposing pathways were perturbed in such a way as to prevent the onset of chromosome instability.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	A similarly mild growth effect of depleting Csn5 was seen in a previous study of the normal diploid human fiboroblast BJ1 cell line .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	As we have noted previously the function of Csn5 may be more critical in a multicellular context or in the face of differentiation signals that evoke a major change in the repertoire of cellular proteins .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	While this manuscript was in preparation it was reported that loss of function mutations in CSN components in S. pombe and Neurospora renders the substrate-recruiting subunits of both Cul1 and Cul3-based CRL complexes unstable resulting in accumulation of their respective targets .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In addition deneddylation of cullins mediated by CSN is required for the maintenance of cullin protein levels in Drosophila and for Cul1 stability in Neurospora .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	In our original studies in S. pombe  we observed normal levels of Cul1 in a csn1? mutant and this result has been confirmed and extended to other cullins in S. pombe  as well as Arabidopsis thaliana .	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	The results reported here indicate that accumulation of human cullins does not depend on CSN-dependent deneddylation.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	It is unclear why human fission yeast and Arabidopsis cullins behave differently from those of Drosophila and Neurospora.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Conclusion	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	We have shown that CSN can stabilize F-box proteins thus acting positively on SCF.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	CSN has been shown to participate in several different processes including development transcription and cell cycle progression [reviewed in ].	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	We propose that loss of deneddylation and a consequent decline in F-box protein abundance underlies these phenotypes.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Methods	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Cell culture cell lines and plasmids	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	HEK293 cell lines were obtained from ATCC.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Cell Lines were grown in Minimum Essential Media (MEM) supplemented with 10% FBS and grown at 37C with 5% CO2.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	For G1 cell cycle arrest cells were grown in MEM media without Serum for 24 hours.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	For G2 cell cycle arrest cells were treated with 330 nM of Nocodazole (Sigma) for 24 hours.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	All transfections were preformed using the calcium phosphate method.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Briefly cells were grown to a density of 1.2?2.0 × 106 cells per 6 cm plate.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	5 ug of DNA was mixed to a volume of 450 uL and 50 uL of 2.5 M CaCl2 was added.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	500 uL of BBS (0.05 M BES 0.28 M NaCl 0.0015 M Na2 HPO4 pH 7.0) was added and solution vortexed to mix.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Cells were re-fed with fresh MEM supplemented with 2.5 uL/mL 25-hydroxycholesterol (Sigma).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Precipitate was applied to cells and incubated for 4 hours prior to removal with PBS.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Cells were re-fed with fresh MEM and incubated 24?48 hours.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	All plasmids used in this study are listed in Table 1.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Construction of stable cell lines	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	HEK293 cells were transfected with pGC95 (control scrambled shRNA 5'-CGTGCAAGGTCAGTACATGTTCAAGAGACATGTACTGACCTTGCACG) or pGC93 (5'-TGCTCAGGCTGCTGCATATTTCAAGAGAATATGCAGCAGCCTGAGCA).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	24 hours after transfection cells were re-fed with MEM supplemented with 5 ug/mL puromycin and selected for 48 hours.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Post-selection cells were grown for 7?10 days and single colonies were selected.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Two representative clonal expansions (1A and 2F) of pGC93 are shown.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	mRNA analysis	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	RNA was purified from cells using Qiagen RNeasy kits.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	After purification RNA was normalized by concentration used as a template for stratascript reverse transcriptase following manufacturers protocols (stratagene).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Reverse transcribed RNA was then used for PCR towards Csn5 ?-Actin cyclin F Fbx4 Fbx7 Fbw7 and Skp2.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Protein analysis	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Native lysates were made by resuspending cell pellets in an equal volume of buffer A (25 mM TRIS (7.5) 150 mM NaCl 0.3% Triton X-100 1 mM EDTA and 1 mM DTT supplemented with 1 mM PMSF 0.25 ug/mL pepstatin and 5 ug/mL each of leupeptin aprotinin and chymotrypsin).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Lysates were cleared by centrifugation and normalized using the Biorad Protein Assay (Biorad).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Denatured lysates were made by resuspending cell pellets in an equal volume of boiling SDS buffer (2% SDS 50 mM TRIS (7.5) and 5 mM DTT) and boiled for 5 minutes.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Lysates were sonicated and cleared by centrifugation.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Antibodies	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	The following antibodies were used in this study: Fbw7 (Orbigen PAB-10563) cyclin F (Santa Cruz Biotechnology sc-952) cyclin E (Santa Cruz Biotechnology sc-198) Csn5 (Santa Cruz Biotechnology sc-9074) ?-tubulin (Santa Cruz Biotechnology sc-9104) Fbx7 (Zymed 51?8000) and c-myc (Santa Cruz Biotechnology sc-42).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Skp2 was generously provided by W.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Krek and Fbx4 was generously provided by W.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Boelens.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Histone H1 kinase assay	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Native lysates were immunoprecipitated for 1 hour with antibodies toward cyclin E.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Immunoprecipitates were washed 3 times in native lysis buffer (buffer A).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Beads were resuspended in 10 uL of reaction mix (for 100 uL: 3 uL 5 mg/mL histone H1 1.5 uL 4.5 mM ATP 1.5 uL ?-32P ATP 94 uL of kinase assay buffer (10 mM TRIS (7.5) 10 mM MgCl2 50 mM NaCl 2 mM EDTA 1 mM DTT and 0.02% Triton X-100)).	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Reactions were incubated for 20 minutes at 21°C and analyzed by SDS-PAGE followed by autoradiography.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Abbreviations	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	CSN: COP9/signalosome	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	SCF: SKP1/Cullin/F-box protein complex	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	JAMM: Jab1/MPN domain metalloenzyme motif	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	BTB: "bric-a-brac/tramtrack/broad" protein complex	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Authors' contributions	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	All experiments were performed by GC.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Both GC and RJD conceived and designed the experiments.	0
For example, the conditional knockdown of CSN5 expression in HEK293 cells using a doxycycline-inducible shRNA system led to the degradation of F-box proteins accompanied with reduced CRL activity.	Both authors contributed to the writing of the manuscript and both authors read and approved the final manuscript.	0
