For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	However we and others have demonstrated their presence in the venoms of colubrid and viperid snakes .	3
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Recently we constructed a cDNA library from the venom glands of Sistrurus catenatus edwardsii (Desert Massasauga) and identified a three-finger toxin family (0.83% abundance) in the venom gland transcriptome .	5
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	As three-finger toxins are uncommon in viperid venoms we performed RT-PCR using a separate pool of RNA as template and found five transcripts that encode three-finger toxins .	5
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The cDNA sequences were used to determine the exon-intron boundaries (Figure 2B) which follow the GT-AG rule of splice-donor and -acceptor sites .	1
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Background	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Snake venom is a mixture of proteins and polypeptides which can be divided into enzymatic and non-enzymatic families .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Three-finger toxins are non-enzymatic polypeptides which belong to a well characterized superfamily of snake venom toxins.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Structurally they have similar folds with three ?-sheeted loops ('fingers') that are stabilized by 4?5 disulfide bridges present in the central core .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Despite their structural similarity they differ widely in their molecular targets.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	For example members of this family target various receptor/ion channel proteins such as ?1-nAChRs L-type calcium channels and integrin ?IIb?3 (Table 1).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Such a wide diversity in their molecular targets is due to changes in their primary sequences while keeping the basic molecular scaffold intact.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Analysis of amino acid sequences and gene structures will help elucidate the molecular evolution of these functionally important toxins.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	As with other snake venom proteins  three-finger toxins are also encoded by a multigene family  and contain functionally diversified isoforms.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	These venom protein families have evolved through a process of gene duplication followed by accelerated point mutations in the protein coding region .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	For example in phospholipase A2 genes the dN/dS ratio in the coding regions is higher than in the non-coding regions .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Such adaptive Darwinian evolution plays an important role in the evolution of novel gene functions leading to functional diversity in each superfamily of toxins.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The accelerated rate of mutations in venom proteins likely provides a competitive edge in predator-prey interactions .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Until recently three-finger toxins were thought to be present only in venoms of the snake families Elapidae .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	They have a 21 residue signal peptide followed by a mature protein consisting of 64?68 residues and the ten conserved cysteine residues which form five disulfide bridges characteristic of most three-finger toxins are also present.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	These viperid toxins belong to the non-conventional three-finger toxin subfamily that has the fifth disulfide bridge in the first loop  and they were named 3FTx 1 through 3FTx 5.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	3FTx 4 and 5 differ only in one residue in the mature protein whereas all others are distinct isoforms.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	All of them have nearly identical signal peptide sequences but the sequence identity in the mature protein region is often low (31?60%) with the exception of 3FTx 4 and 5 (94% identity) (Figure 1).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	A systematic comparison of amino acid sequences of the mature proteins indicate that some segments are highly conserved (60?100% identity) between two or three isoforms whereas other regions are not (only 12.5?50% identity) (see Additional file ).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Such similarities and dissimilarities in various other segments were observed among these three-finger toxins and they appear to be evolving through "switching" of various segments.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	To understand the molecular evolution of these toxins we obtained the gene sequences of these three-finger toxins using genomic DNA (gDNA) PCR and GenomeWalking approaches.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	This is the first report of gene structure of three-finger toxins from snakes of the family Viperidae.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The analyses of their gene sequences show that segment "switching" occurs only in the exons not in the introns.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	This phenomenon of exchange is likely an important contributor to the gene evolution of this family of toxins which exhibit numerous distinct pharmacological effects.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Results and Discussion	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Gene structure	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	To understand the evolution of the three-finger toxins in S. catenatus edwardsii venom we determined their gene structures (Figure 2A).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	We obtained the full length gene of 3FTx 3 by gDNA PCR.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	However we obtained only partial genes (from exon II to exon III) of the other four toxins by gDNA PCR even after several attempts perhaps due to suboptimal annealing of the primers or the thermal cycling profile.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	We performed GenomeWalking to obtain the remaining gene segments from exon I to exon II (Figure 2A).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	At least 16 clones were sequenced from each PCR product to obtain the gene sequences of all five three-finger toxins (2.246 kb for 3FTx 1 2.145 kb for 3FTx 2 2.186 kb for 3FTx 4 2.167 kb for 3FTx 5 and 2.986 kb for 3FTx 3).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Genes of all five three-finger toxins have similar architecture with two introns and three exons similar to those of elapid three-finger toxin genes.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Sequence data was deposited in GenBank under accession numbers EU 293789 EU 293790 EU 293791 EU 293792 and EU 293793 respectively.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The gene sequences were used to determine the phylogenetic relationship with three-finger toxin genes from the snake families Elapidae and Colubridae.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The phylogenetic tree was constructed using DNAMAN and viperid three-finger toxin genes form a separate cluster in the tree (Figure 3).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Intron I	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Intron I plays an important role in the expression of various genes  and is the most variable region in elapid three-finger toxin genes .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Sequence alignment of intron I of the viperid genes revealed that it can be divided into segments similar to elapid three-finger toxin genes .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Segments I II V VII and X are conserved in all the genes except erabutoxin c gene (Figure 4).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	In 3FTx 1 4 5 and 2 segments III and IV are missing.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	New additional segments IIIa Va and Vc are present in 3FTx 1 4 5 and 2.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	3FTx 1 has an insertion (segment Vb) whereas 3FTx 3 has one additional segment identified as Vd (Figure 4).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Interestingly the additional segments in viperid three-finger gene are short or long nucleotide repeats.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Segment Va in 3FTx 1 2 4 and 5 has 19?27 continuous "TAA" repeats while the Vb in 3FTx 1 has 18 continuous "GAT" repeats.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	These shorter repeats may represent microsatellite sequences.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The segment Vd in 3FTx 3 has three different repeats: two repeats of TATTTCATTCCATTCCATATTTTCGATTCTATTCCTGTTCTG (red boxes) three repeats of TCTATTCTATTCCACTCC sequences (blue boxes) and 14 and 27 continuous repeats of CTATT (pink boxes) (see Additional file ).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Addition/deletion of segments in intron I is also observed in elapid and hydrophiid genes and was linked to the evolutionary diversification of these snake toxin genes .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Intron I of all viperid three-finger genes are nearly identical; among 3FTx 1 2 4 and 5 there is only a short insertion (segment Vb) in 3FTx 1.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	3FTx 3 is distinct from other 3FTxs.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	It has two additional segments (IV and Vd compared to viperid genes) and segment IIIa is missing (Figure 4).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The additional segments are either deleted (elapid) or added (viperid) in the gene of three-finger toxins during their evolution but the role of these insertions/deletions in the expression of the three-finger toxins is currently unknown.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Interestingly the region of exon-intron boundary is similar to elapid and hydrophiid genes and seems to be conserved among all of them.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Intron II	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Intron II of the elapid and hydrophiid three-finger toxin genes is conserved and was thought to be not segmented .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	However comparison of the intron II sequences of viperid genes reveals that it also can be divided into segments similar to intron I (Figure 5).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Segments I III and V are conserved in all three-finger genes.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	However 3FTx 1 4 5 and 2 genes have an additional common segment (IV) and 3FTx 3 has one additional segments (II).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Thus segmentation appears to be a common structural feature of both introns and the insertion/deletion of segments may contribute to their regulation of expression.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Further analysis of segments may facilitate understanding the evolutionary history of this unusual gene structural feature.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Segment switching in exons	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Exons also appeared to have segments (Figure 1).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	As expected because of overall size the segments in exons are much smaller as compared to those in introns (4?7 bp in segment vii in exon II to 53 bp in segment i in exon III compared to 21?22 bp in segment X to 680 bp in segment Vd in intron 1).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Analysis of the gene sequences reveals that the gain/loss of segments occurs in both introns and exons (Figure 6).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The segments in introns when present show high similarities ( 85% identity).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	In contrast while some exon segments show high sequence identity (60?100% identity; shown in same colors) other segments show low identity (12.5?50% identity; shown in different colors).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Such similarity/dissimilarity of segments is more prominent in exon II and exon III.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	In exon II there are four different kinds of segment ii; in 3FTx 4 and 5 they are identical whereas in the other genes they are totally different (Figure 6).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	In the same way segment v is similar in 3FTx 1 4 and 5 whereas in 3FTx 2 and 3 it is different.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Segment vi is absent in 3FTx 1 but present in the other genes; this segment is similar in 3FTx 4 and 5 but different in 3FTx 2 and 3.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Thus exon II appears to have evolved through "switching" of segments although the origins of the "new" segments are not known.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Similarly exon III also appears to have evolved through "switching" of segments.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	However this phenomenon is not observed in introns of these genes although there are additions/deletions of a few short segments in introns (see Additional file ).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The switching of segments in exons has far reaching effects on the biological effects of the toxins.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The changed segments will affect the overall surface properties of the expressed protein (such as charge density and hydrophobicity) and hence the function.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	In contrast the small additions/deletions in introns will not affect the nature of the protein product but may affect its expression.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	It is important to note that in spite of this segment switching positions of cysteine residues are conserved thereby maintaining similar disulfide pairing folding architecture and the overall three-finger fold of the mature protein.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	There are several possibilities that could explain the observed switching of segments.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	1.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Splicing variations: The difference in isoforms of some proteins due to change of segments can be easily explained based on splicing variation .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	However unlike these proteins the segment switching in viperid 3FTx occurs within exon II and exon III.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Among three-finger toxins long-chain neurotoxins arose from short-chain neurotoxins through an error in the splicing site .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Such an error leads to insertion of a short segment with the fifth disulfide in the second loop.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	In viperid toxin genes however the insertions of segments do not occur at the intron-exon boundaries so the mechanism of insertions/deletions or switching of segments does not occur due to errors in splicing.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	2.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Recombination: Distinct genes encoding isoforms of proteins are also generated through recombination of two related/unrelated genes .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	In general the segments involved in such recombination events are fairly large (700 to 2500 bp) and the segments that are exchanged in exons of 3FTxs are probably much too small.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Therefore canonical recombination may not be involved in these exchange events.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	3.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Accumulation of point mutations: Accelerated point mutations in three-finger toxins are common and they lead to the evolution of several isoforms .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Although these point mutations occur in exon segments they may not explain such a distinct change in the sequences of segments.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	This possibility requires the repeated occurrence and accumulation of multiple point mutations within each segment.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Further all the intermediates have to be selected through evolution.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The absence of intermediate isoforms however contradicts this possibility; and	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	4.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Independent recruitment events: Venom protein genes are thought to be recruited to the venom gland genome by gene duplication of a normal physiologically important gene and recruitment of the duplicated gene for expression in the venom gland .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	It is possible but not probable that each of these isoforms has an independent origin and their ancestral three-finger toxin genes were recruited at different times.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	High similarity across numerous 3FTx genes in exon I and introns I and II supports instead a single recruitment and lineage of these genes and not multiple recruitment events.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	In the unlikely events of independent recruitments introns will have to undergo convergent evolution to explain the high similarity while the exons will be undergoing divergent evolution.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Therefore segment switching results in divergence of functional regions of exons (see below) while maintaining the basic fold rather than convergence upon a single scaffold motif during independent recruitment.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Although the mechanism of the exchange of segments in exons is unknown it is apparent that these events play important roles in the evolution of these toxins in addition to the role that accelerated point mutations in the exons plays in toxin evolution .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	These point mutations appear to alter the interaction surfaces of toxins .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	However they affect one residue at a time and a smaller molecular surface and they may help in fine-tuning of functional sites of the molecule for interaction with specific molecular targets.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	They may (a) enhance the affinity to a specific receptor or ion channel; (b) change the specificity to another closely related receptor or ion channel; and (c) change the species specificity of the toxin to a particular receptor.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	In contrast accelerated exchange of larger segments drastically changes parts of the interacting loops or toxin surface.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Therefore these exchanges of segments may help in switching the molecular targets of toxins and hence affecting their pharmacological properties.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	We propose that accelerated segment switch in exons to alter targeting (ASSET) is a phenomenon which plays an important role in "remodeling" a toxin toward a different and novel receptor target (see below).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	ASSET and evolution of molecular surfaces	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	To understand the impact of switching of segments on the molecular surfaces of three-finger toxins in S. catenatus edwardsii we modeled all four distinct three-finger toxins.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	As shown in Figure 7 the three ?-sheeted loops in these toxins are distinctly different from one another as most of them are replaced by segment switching (Figure 7 top row).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Further the electrostatic potentials of these toxins indicate that the charge distributions on their molecular surfaces are also different.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	3FTx 1 and 4 have more acidic residues on the surface as compared to 3FTx 2 and 3 (Figure 7 middle and bottom rows).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	This drastic difference in the charge residues on the surface is due to the exchange of segments (see Additional file ) but retention of the similar molecular fold.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Such a change in the charged residues might play an important role in switching the molecular targets.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Since most of the functional sites are located on these ?-sheeted loops (for a review see ) it is logical to propose that all of these novel viperid toxins have distinct pharmacological properties.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Therefore ASSET phenomena affect the molecular surfaces of three-finger toxins significantly and alter their molecular targets playing a crucial role in the evolution of the three-finger toxins.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Conclusion	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Systematic analyses of gene sequences of Sistrurus catenatus edwardsii (Desert Massasauga) three-finger toxins indicate that short segments in exons II and III are changed more rapidly compared to intron segments.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	We propose that such a phenomenon (ASSET) of accelerated segment switching in exons has the effect of rapidly altering the molecular surface properties.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	This mechanism of rapid change can provide a selective advantage to venomous snakes in predator/prey coevolutionary arms races resulting in a diversity of structurally similar toxins in a single venom and allowing the venom toxins repertoire to stay a step ahead of prey defensive responses .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Thus ASSET plays an important role in changing the molecular target and hence the pharmacology of these toxins.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Methods	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Tissues and reagents	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Extraction of venom glands and liver from Sistrurus catenatus edwardsii (Desert Massasauga) were reported previously (Pahari et al. 2007).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	RNeasy mini kit DNeasy DNA extraction kit Qiaquick gel extraction and PCR purification kit and a QiaPrep mini prep kit were purchased from Qiagen (Valencia CA USA).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	GenomeWalker? kit was purchased from Clontech Laboratories Inc (Palo Alto CA USA) Long PCR Enzyme Mix was procured from Fermentas (Burlington ON Canada) TOPO® XL PCR Cloning kit was obtained from Invitrogen (Carlsbad CA USA) and ABI PRISM® BigDye® terminator cycle sequencing ready reaction kit was purchased from Perkin Elmer (Foster City CA USA).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Oligonucleotides were custom synthesized by 1st BASE (Singapore).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	All other chemicals and reagents used were of the purest grade available.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Genomic DNA extraction	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Genomic DNA (gDNA) was extracted from the S. catenatus edwardsii liver tissue (30 mg previously stored in RNAlater) using the DNeasy Tissue kit (Qiagen USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	RNaseH was used during the extraction to remove contaminating RNA.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The integrity of the isolated gDNA was confirmed by 0.8% agarose gel electrophoresis and DNA was quantified spectrophotometrically.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	gDNA PCR	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	gDNA PCR was performed to obtained the gene sequence of 3FTx 3 using a gene-specific forward primer 5'-ATGAAAACTCTGCTGTTGATCCTGGGGGT-3' and gene-specific reverse primer 5'-GCCAATAGTCACTTTTAGAACTATTTGTTGCAGTTGTCTG-3'.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The PCR reaction contained 1.0 unit of Long PCR Enzyme Mix 1 ?g of gDNA.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	0.2 mM dNTP 0.2 ?M primers and 1 × Long enzyme mix polymerase buffer in a total of 50 ?L.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The thermal cycling reaction involved 35 cycles of one step each at 95°C for 15 s 60°C for 15 s 68°C for 3 min followed by a final extension step at 68°C for 10 min.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The amplified PCR products were extracted and cloned as mentioned below.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Construction of GenomeWalking libraries	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The GenomeWalking libraries were constructed using the Universal GenomeWalker? kit (Clontech Laboratories Inc USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Briefly libraries were constructed with 3 ?g of gDNA restriction digested with DraI EcoRV PvuII and StuI.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The 'genome walk' involved two sets of primers: adaptor primer 1 (AP1-sense) 5'-GTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGC-3' and nested PCR adaptor primer 2 (AP2-sense) 5'-ACTATAGGGCACGCGTGGT-3' both provided in the kit and 25-mer and 27-mer gene-specific primers designed from the signal peptide regions of cDNAs of all the three-finger toxins.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Primary and nested PCRs were performed as recommended by the manufacturer (BD GenomeWalker?) using Advantage Polymerase 2 Mix obtained from Clontech Laboratories Inc (Palo Alto CA USA).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The 50.0 ?l reaction mixture consisted of 1 ?l of DNA template (0.1 ?g) (either from each library or from primary PCR products) 1× PCR buffer (provided in the kit) 0.2 mM dNTPs 0.2 ?M appropriate adaptor primers 0.2 ?M of appropriate gene-specific primers 1× Advantage?	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	2 polymerase mix.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The thermal cycling profile used was as follows: 7 cycles of 94°C for 2 s 72°C for 3 min; 32 cycles of 94°C for 2 s and 67°C for 4 min followed by a final extension at 67°C for 7 min.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The PCR products were purified cloned and sequenced.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Cloning and sequencing	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	PCR products were subjected to 1% agarose gel electrophoresis visualized by ethidium bromide staining and purified using a gel extraction kit or PCR purification kit.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Purified PCR products were ligated either to pDrive vector (Qiagen Hilden Germany) or pCR®-XL-TOPO® vector (Invitrogen USA).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Ligated vectors were transformed to DH5a competent cells by heat shock.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Kanamycin (100 mg mL-1) was used for antibiotic resistance selection.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Blue/white colony screening was done on LB agar plates using 80 mg mL-1 X-gal and 0.5 mL L-1 of 100 mM isopropyl-?-D-thiogalacto-pyranoside (IPTG) to select the positive colonies.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	DNA sequencing reactions were carried out using the ABI PRISM® BigDye® terminator cycle sequencing ready reaction kit (BDV3.1) according to manufacturer's instructions (Applied Biosystem Foster City CA USA).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	DNA sequencing was carried out using an ABI PRISM® 3100 automated DNA sequencer.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Sequence analysis and phylogenetic tree	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Sequence analysis was carried out using the BLASTX program at National Center for Biotechnology Information website.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Multiple sequence alignment was done using DNAMAN and online DIALIGN Multiple Sequence Alignments tool at BiBiServ .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	A neighbor-joining tree was constructed using DNAMAN version 4.1.5.1 (Lynnon BioSoft).	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Molecular modeling	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Three dimensional structures of three-finger toxins from Desert Massasauga (Sistrurus catenatus edwardsii) venom gland transcriptome were modeled using the online I-TASSER server for protein 3D structure prediction .	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The server predicts the folds and secondary structure by profile-profile alignment (PPA) threading techniques.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	For each protein 3?4 models were obtained.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	The model with the lowest free energy was used for further analysis.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Ribbon structure diagrams and surface charge models were created using the DS ViewerPro software to compare potential differences in electrostatic charges of these viperid 3FTx.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Abbreviations	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	ASSET Accelerated Segment Switch in Exons to alter Targeting	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	Authors' contributions	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	RD and SP conducted the wet lab experiments to determine the gene structure of the three-finger toxins.	0
For example, we have recently used transcriptomic analysis to show the presence of three-finger toxins (3FTxs) in viperid venom.	RD created the figures tables and wrote the manuscript; SPM supplied the liver and venom glands and significantly contributed to the manuscript writing; RMK contributed to the data analyses and writing of the manuscript and also supervised RD and SP All authors contributed to the development of the concept.	0
