Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	One consequence of this heterogeneity is that the top 10% of the cells with the highest Ins2 expression account for 50% of the total Ins2 mRNA.	2
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	6.5 ?l containing total RNA or lysed single cells 0.5 mM dNTP (Sigma-Aldrich) 2.5 ?M oligo(dT) (15 bp Invitrogen) 2.5 ?M random hexamers (Invitrogen) were incubated at 65°C for 5 min.	3
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The primer sequences are available in Additional file : Table 3.	1
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Background	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Cells in a population are in many aspects unique in their characteristics even in a seemingly homogenous culture or tissue.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Single cell gene expression levels?protein as well as mRNA?show large cell-to-cell variations both in a resting state and when exposed to stimuli stemming in part from the stochastic nature of gene expression .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	This implies that data obtained from a population of cells cannot be assumed to reflect the behaviour of the individual cell.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Instead cells must be assayed one at a time which in the case of mRNA measurements requires characterization of femtograms of mRNA .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) offers sufficient sensitivity and it is the gold standard for mRNA quantification .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Coupled with a method to handle and collect individual cells quantification of mRNA in single cells is feasible for most laboratories today.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Previously published protocols for single-cell RT-PCR are generally non-quantitative and specialized for a particular cell-type or involve laborious purification steps .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	For single-cell mRNA quantification to become common practice simple and generally applicable methods are needed.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Indeed non-proprietary protocols not requiring purification have been presented but they involve only weak detergents serving as lysis agents that do not inhibit nucleases .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Lack of appropriate controls for single-cell measurements makes it difficult to guarantee mRNA integrity during collection and handling of cells.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Noise in RT-qPCR measurements increases with decreasing initial copy numbers  and quantification of rare transcripts pushes the measurement to a point where it no longer can be considered quantitative; at best the presence of mRNA will be detected.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The details of this phenomenon?including the relative contribution of RT and qPCR respectively?are poorly investigated .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Previous reports utilizing single-cell RT-qPCR have left these questions largely unanswered or with inconsistent results: qPCR induced variation ranging from ~8% (CV) at 4000 cDNA copies  down to  1% at two copies  have been shown.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Without knowledge of the distribution and impact of the technical noise it is hard to assess the validity of the measurements.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In this study we present a single-cell RT-qPCR protocol without purification with maintained mRNA integrity high reproducibility and no inhibition of RT or PCR reactions.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In addition we investigate the nature of noise in RT-qPCR and through mathematical modelling we determine the accuracy in measurements of single mouse endocrine cells.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Our model predicts how the noise in RT and PCR varies with different expression levels which will aid in planning and design of single-cell RT-qPCR measurements.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We conclude that the inherent variability of RT-qPCR is negligible compared to naturally occurring variation between cells for abundantly expressed genes while uncertainties in the PCR may obfuscate measurements for rare transcripts.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Results	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Derivation of a purification-free protocol	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The process of single-cell RT-qPCR is summarized in Figure 1.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Our approach which does not involve mRNA purification requires a lysis solution that is compatible with downstream enzymatic reactions.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In addition it should 1) disrupt the cell membrane; 2) make the mRNA accessible for reverse transcription; and 3) maintain mRNA integrity.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Two agents were evaluated for this task: NP-40 a weak non-chaotropic detergent (also referred to as Igepal CA-630) and guanidine thiocyanate (GuSCN) a strong chaotropic compound.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Five different lysis conditions were tested in terms of their ability to lyse one cell cluster (pancreatic islet of Langerhans each containing ~1000 cells) assessed by the amount of accessible insulin II (Ins2) transcripts using RT-qPCR (Figure 2A).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	NP-40 had no effect compared to control (water) when used at concentrations of 0.5% or 4% indicating that these lysis conditions are too weak to dissociate the islet and lyse the cells.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Proteinase K is commonly used in lysis protocols but had no beneficial effect when added in the presence of 0.5% NP-40.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	GuSCN based lysis buffer provided efficient lysis of the islet using a concentration of 0.5 M and increased the RNA yield 600-fold compared to control conditions (Figure 2A).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Lysis of a compact cluster of cells is clearly more challenging than dissociated cells.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We evaluated the latter using another cell type primary astrocytes and the RNA yield was here within a 2.5-fold range for both 0.5 M GuSCN and 0.5% NP-40 compared to the water control (Additional file  Figure 1).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	This indicates that any of the tested lysis conditions will suffice for complete cell lysis of dissociated cells while 0.5 M GuSCN is required to break apart cell clusters.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In a sample containing a single lysed cell the RNA is assumed to be evenly distributed in the solution.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We tested this hypothesis by splitting vortexed single-cell lysates into three separate RT-reactions followed by qPCR using Ins2 primers.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Samples lysed in 0.5 M GuSCN showed 80% lower intra-assay variation than cells emptied in 0.5% NP-40 suggesting that GuSCN lyses the cell and efficiently homogenates the mRNA (Additional file : Figure 2A).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The presence of potential inhibitors and RNases from the tissue or culture medium may reduce the cDNA yield.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We addressed this concern by adding a known amount of purified total islet RNA to tubes containing one of the following: 1) extracellular solution (see the Methods section for details); 2) one cell in 0.5 M GuSCN in water; or 3) ten cells in 0.5 M GuSCN in water (Additional file : Table 1).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The amount of RNA in the cells was negligible compared to the externally added RNA.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The yield was unaffected by the extracellular solution and in fact increased in the presence of cells in GuSCN a phenomenon investigated further (see below).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	As an additional control for inhibitors we added an equal amount (~2000 copies) of in vitro transcribed artificial RNA based on the cyclophilin E (Ppie) gene to the lysis solution.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Ppie was measured in every single-cell sample and deviation  1% led to exclusion from further analysis (data not shown).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In Figure 2B an equal amount of purified RNA was reverse transcribed in the presence of 0 40 80 and 120 mM GuSCN followed by qPCR using five different primer pairs.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The RT-reaction efficiency was significantly improved (2- to 6-fold) for all tested genes (Ins1 Gcg Sst Gapdh and Rps29) using 40 mM GuSCN.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	By contrast 80 mM GuSCN had no effect whereas 120 mM GuSCN was strongly inhibitory.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We also evaluated the addition of 0.5?1.5% 2-mercapto ethanol but no effect on the RT yield either alone or in concert with GuSCN was observed (data not shown).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Formation of correct PCR-products was confirmed by agarose gel electrophoresis.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Neither of the other two lysis conditions NP-40 or proteinase K had any discernible effect on RT yield (Additional file : Figure 2B ).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Taken together we chose to use ~0.5 M GuSCN in the single-cell lysis solution due to superior cell lysis ability and positive effect on the RT reaction at the concentration of 40 mM.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	RT- and qPCR-induced noise	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The total technical noise level of RT-qPCR was estimated by diluting purified total RNA from four to six different concentrations (equivalent of ~5-5Â·103 copies of chromogranin B (Chgb) ~10-104 copies of ribosomal protein S29 (Rps29) ~50-103 copies of SRY-box containing gene 2 (Sox2) nestin (Nes) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (Gfap) and ~500-5Â·105 copies of Ins2 transcripts).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	For each dilution 24 identical RT-qPCR reactions were run.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The mRNA concentrations were chosen to primarily cover low-medium abundance transcripts i.e.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Chgb Gfap Nes Rps29 and Sox2.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Consequently the concentration of the high abundance Ins2 transcript is 50?100 times higher.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The qPCR-specific noise was calculated from 30 qPCR replicates (Rps29) at five different concentrations of mouse cDNA.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The measurements were combined to create a model of RT- and qPCR-induced noise as well as errors introduced by the liquid handling.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The technical reproducibility of RT and qPCR is represented here by the noise strength (?2 = SD2/mean2) for different initial copy numbers.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Assuming that the noise from each reaction is additive we can write the total noise as ?2Total = ?2Dilution + ?2RT+ ?2PCR and by fitting this model to the data we can quantify the contribution of each component.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Dilution corresponds to Poisson-type noise which arises when a sample with a low number of molecules is imperfectly diluted.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Additional noise is introduced by the RT-reaction and the final term corresponds to the noise introduced by the qPCR step.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In Additional file  we derive functional forms for each component and we show how they can be assessed from replicate measurements.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Figure 3 shows that the total technical noise is very low at initial mRNA copy numbers down to ~100.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The noise model allows us to estimate the RT-reaction efficiency (i.e. the fraction between the resulting number of cDNA copies and the initial number of mRNA copies) for each gene by non-linear regression.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We find that the RT-reaction efficiency is 99% 85% 67% 28% 8% and 3% for Gfap Rps29 ChgB Nes Sox2 and Ins2 respectively.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The estimate for Ins2 is clearly much lower than what we would expect and we believe that this is due to insufficient data on the qPCR noise for high cDNA copy numbers for the fitting procedure (see Additional file ).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We conclude that for high RT-efficiencies the noise originating from the RT reaction is comparatively low 5?20% of total noise while the qPCR noise dominates (30?90%) at low concentrations.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	If the RT-efficiency is low ( 10% i.e. Sox2 and Ins2) the qPCR noise is insignificant for all concentrations.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The model estimates the RT-efficiency and the results are reasonable for five of the six genes.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	For Ins2 the efficiency is much lower than expected.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The poor curve fit for the Ins2 gene results from the fact that the Ins2 data was generated for much higher copy numbers whereas our model for the PCR-noise was adapted for the low abundances of tge five other genes.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The proportion of the total noise for the PCR (filled symbols) and RT reactions (open symbols).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Circles squares and triangles are designated as in (a).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The PCR and RT components do not have to add up to 1; the noise stemming from the dilution corresponds to the remaining noise.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	For Rps29 Chgb and Gfap the PCR noise clearly dominates for all concentrations.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	For Ins2 and Sox2 the estimated RT efficiency is very low which means that this reaction will add a larger contribution to the total noise.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Nes has an intermediate efficiency and for low copy numbers the RT noise dominates but it becomes smaller than the qPCR nosie when more transcripts are analyzed.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Furthermore the copy numbers are relatively high for Ins2 which deflates the PCR noise.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Single-cell RT-qPCR	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Using a glass capillary mounted on a micromanipulator we collected pancreatic ?-cells incubated in 3 6 10 and 20 mM glucose and emptied the intact cell in 1 ?l 0.5 M GuSCN.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Following reverse transcription we subjected each single-cell's cDNA to qPCR using primers for Rps29 Chgb and Ins2 (Figure 4).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The median expression level across the different glucose concentrations for these three genes were 9900 230 and 110 mRNA copies per cell respectively.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Some cells failed to generate a signal (34 59 and 2% for Rps29 Chgb and Ins2 respectively).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Transcript level heterogeneity is high and the distribution is skewed which is in agreement with previous studies of eukaryotic cells .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Increasing glucose concentrations altered the median Ins2 expression from 9000 mRNA copies at 3 mM glucose to 8500 10000 and 13000 mRNA copies for 6 10 and 20 mM glucose respectively (a detailed description is found in Additional file : Figure 4).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The increase was mainly due to an increasing fraction of cells with very high expression levels.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Glucose did not have an effect on Rps29 or Chgb.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	How much of this variability stems from true biological variation and how much is attributable to the RT-qPCR?	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The RT-qPCR noise model applied on the single-cell data suggests that the RT-qPCR noise is ~0.1% of the total variation in the Ins2 expression (Figure 4).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	For Rps29 which has lower expression the range is 10?50% and for Chgb 75?200%.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Thus the decreasing accuracy of the RT-qPCR at lower copy numbers heavily influences measurements of low-abundance transcripts such as Chgb.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Moreover the 95% confidence level shows that a single measurement is accurate to within a factor of two when the expression level is  1000 transcripts (Figure 5).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We conclude that in the case of abundantly expressed genes the distribution of the measurement errors is very narrow compared to the biological noise and the fluctuations introduced by the experimental procedure are negligible.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Finally we investigated PCR inhibition caused by overloading the reaction with cDNA .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We tried to mitigate the PCR inhibition by decreasing the ratio between reverse transcriptase and Taq polymerase and found that a ratio ?	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	2 (U/U) was required to completely remove inhibitory effects.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	At low concentrations of RNA decreasing the RT-enzyme concentration did not have a negative effect on RT-yield (Additional file : Table 2).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Discussion	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Individual cells have transcript levels which vary significantly from the population mean .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The biological significance of this heterogeneity is still not clearly understood and it is an active area of research today.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	To characterize this cell-to-cell variation high precision measurements of single cells are required.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Technically such measurements are still very challenging and we have presented an RT-qPCR protocol which should be accessible for most laboratories.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	By using a purification-free protocol we are both simplifying single-cell measurements and eliminating RNA losses associated with current available purification protocols.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	High concentrations (? 4 M) of guanidine salts are commonly used in standard RNA purification protocols where it denatures nucleases rapidly and liberates nucleic acids from bound proteins .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Since GuSCN strongly inhibits downstream reactions the RNA is normally purified.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	At lower concentrations of GuSCN the effect diminishes but RNases are completely inhibited even at 1 M GuSCN  and we show that the cell lysis ability remains strong at 0.5 M.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	By ensuring sufficient dilution (10-fold) of the GuSCN prior reverse transcription the concentration is brought down to regions where it does not interfere with the enzymatic reactions.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Indeed we demonstrate that low concentrations (~40 mM) even had a favourable effect on the RT yield and reproducibility.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	This effect may be a result from reduced secondary structures of the mRNA  enhanced enzyme activity  and/or that GuSCN protects the mRNA from degradation.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We have also developed a mathematical model which allows us to quantify the contributions from the RT and PCR steps to the technical noise.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The only parameter in our model which is not directly obtained from the experimental data is the RT efficiency.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The RT efficiency can be estimated experimentally by RT-qPCR using known amounts of synthetic RNA mimicking the properties of the native mRNA .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	However producing full length mRNAs is challenging and it is common to use a truncated RNA molecule which may not be reverse transcribed with the same efficiency as the native mRNA.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Instead we use our model to determine the RT efficiency indirectly; using non-linear regression we find the RT efficiency which best fits the data.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We find that this indirect method gives realistic results for Chgb Rps29 Gfap Nes and Sox2 and we believe that it could be a useful way of estimating the RT efficiency for a given gene.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Given the limited amount of mRNA in a single cell  how should the RT and qPCR experiments be designed in order to minimize technical noise?	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We find that the benefit of replicate RT reactions is insignificant depending on the RT efficiency and we recommend a single RT reaction using all available mRNA (Additional file ).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In Figure 6 we illustrate different strategies to distribute the cDNA in qPCR reactions.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	High dilution allows more genes and replicates to be analyzed but this is at the price of lower mRNA copy numbers thereby increasing the measurement noise.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Figures 6a?b shows how the technical noise increases when the sample is diluted.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Curves show technical noise levels for each sample when it is split in 1 2 5 or 20 equal parts between RT and PCR.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Figures 6c?d show that additional dilution of the cDNA to allow qPCR replicates is not a suitable approach to decrease the technical noise.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In particular for Ins2 (Figure 6b) which has a low RT efficiency there is a slight increase of the technical noise when the number of replicates is increased.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In contrast for Rps29 with a high RT efficiency there is a slight reduction of the technical noise for low mRNA numbers.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In summary the single-cell mRNA should be reverse transcribed in a single RT reaction followed by one qPCR reaction per gene.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	It is advantageous to use more of the single-cell cDNA for low-abundance genes and a smaller part for abundantly expressed genes.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	These conclusions are only valid for low mRNA levels.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	However loading large volumes of cDNA to the qPCR may cause inhibition.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In an effort to reduce this effect we confirm previous findings suggesting a lowered reverse transcriptase concentration and an increased Taq enzyme concentration .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	An alternate solution is to precipitate the single-cell cDNA in ethanol thus utilizing a larger fraction of the total amount in the qPCR .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Yet another option is multiplex pre-amplification RT-PCR for 10?15 cycles followed by singleplex qPCR on the resulting pool of PCR-products.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	This could decrease technical noise levels provided that the multiplex PCR is efficient reproducible and unbiased.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Our model of the technical noise suggests that most of the noise in the method stems from the qPCR at least when the initial template copy number is low and the RT-efficiency is relatively high.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	However our analyses show that the RT-efficiencies vary significantly across genes  and for low efficiencies the RT reaction will constitute a larger proportion of the total noise.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Compared to the biological cell-to-cell variation the technical noise is insignificant down to ~1000 copies but becomes considerable at  100 RNA copies.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The model includes only three experimental factors; the RT-reaction dilution of the sample and the qPCR while in reality there are many more steps contributing to the total noise.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Thus our estimates of the noise components should be considered upper bounds since they will most likely become smaller if additional factors are included in the model.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Conclusion	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We found that the strong denaturant guanidine thiocyanate can serve as lysis agent and RNase inhibitor and improve reverse transcription yield in purification-free single-cell RT-qPCR.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Our protocol allows fast and streamlined measurements of single-cell gene expression.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Analysis of technical noise caused by the RT- and PCR-reaction showed that this noise is insignificant compared to biological cell-to-cell variation at mRNA copy numbers  ~100.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Below this level technical noise stemming from the PCR which increases dramatically when initial copy number is  ~20 cDNA copies becomes significant.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In addition to achieve a high technical reproducibility genes should be analyzed with lowest possible dilution between the RT and qPCR.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	That is a single qPCR measurement should be performed for each gene where the number of genes to be analyzed determines the total dilution factor between RT and PCR.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Methods	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Preparation and culture of cells	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Pancreatic islets were prepared from healthy female National Maritime Research Institute (NMRI) mice aged 3?4 months (Bomholtgaard) and fed a normal diet ad libitum.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The mice were sacrificed by cervical dislocation and pancreatic islets were isolated by collagenase P digestion (Roche) followed by manual collection of islets .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	To prepare dispersed single cells the collected islets were gently shaken at low extracellular Ca2+ concentration to dissolve the structure of the islet .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Dispersed cells were plated in plastic 35 mm Petri dishes (Nunc) in RPMI 1640 medium (SVA) supplemented with 10% FCS 100 U ml-1 penicillin and 10 ?gml-1 streptomycin (all from Invitrogen) in the presence of 5 mM glucose (Sigma-Aldrich).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The cells were maintained in culture for 2?6 hours allowing them to attach to the surface of the dish	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Primary astrocytes were prepared and cultured as described .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Cells were grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (Sigma-Aldrich) containing 10% fetal calf serum 2 mmol/L L-glutamine and penicillin-streptomycin (all Invitrogen).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Single cell collection	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Dispersed attached cells were washed twice with a buffer (referred to as extracellular solution EC) containing 138 mM NaCl 5.6 mM KCl 1.2 mM MgCl2 2.6 mM CaCl2 5 mM HEPES (pH 7.4 with NaOH) and 3 6 10 or 20 mM glucose to remove dead and loose debris prior to cell collection with patch-clamp pipettes.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The dish containing adhered cells and approximately 1 ml EC-solution was mounted in a standard inverted light-microscope (Zeiss Axiovert 135).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Borosilicate glass capillaries (Hilgenberg GmbH) with outer diameter of 1.5?1.6 mm and wall thickness of 0.16 mm were pulled to pipettes using a patch-clamp pipette puller (Heka PIP5).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The diameter of the tip was approximately 10 ?m on average substantially wider than standard patch-clamp pipettes and large enough to allow passage of an intact cell.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The glass pipette was mounted on a hydraulic micromanipulator (Narishige) on the microscope.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	By manually controlling the pressure inside the pipette it was possible to collect intact or nearly intact cells with minimum volume of extracellular solution (  0.1 ?l).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In total 158 cells were collected and 126 (80%) were identified as ?-cells based on their expression of insulin while most of the remaining cells were ?-cells (16%).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Six samples were negative for all measured genes and they were categorized as technical failures (96% success rate).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Lysis and purification	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Cell-cluster lysis	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Single pancreatic islets of roughly the same size were placed in 10 ?l of various lysis buffers.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The detergents Nonidet P-40 (NP-40 also known as Igepal CA-630 Sigma-Aldrich) and guanidine thiocyanate (GuSCN Sigma-Aldrich) were used.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Samples were incubated at 60Â°C or 80Â°C for 15 minutes (60Â°C for samples containing 0.4 mg/ml proteinase K (Invitrogen)) followed by 5 min incubation at 95Â°C and frozen at -25Â°C for subsequent analysis.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Samples were diluted 1:20 with mQ water (ELGA Labwater) prior reverse transcription.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Primary astrocytes were washed twice in PBS followed by single cell dissociation with 0.25% Trypsin/EDTA (Invitrogen) treatment for 3 min.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Trypsin was inactivated by addition of cell medium and washed once in PBS.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Cells were then filtrated using a 40 ?m cell strainer (Becton Dickinson).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Cells were evenly distributed between sample tubes and all liquid were eliminated after a short centrifugation (3000 g for 1 min) followed by addition of 50 ?l lysis buffer.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	2 U/?l RNaseOut (Invitrogen) was used as RNase inhibitor.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Samples were incubated at 80Â°C for 5 minutes and frozen at -25Â°C for subsequent analysis.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Samples were diluted 1:4 with mQ water prior reverse transcription.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Single-cell lysis	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In single-cell experiments the glass pipettes were emptied in 0.2 ml plastic tubes containing either 2 ?l of 0.5 M GuSCN or 1 ?l of 1 M GuSCN in water.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The emptying required a custom-made device consisting of a tube holder lined up with a coarse micromanipulator on which the pipette was mounted.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The glass pipette was carefully flushed with lysis solution a few times to make sure the cell entered the tube.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In most cases the tip of the pipette was gently broken in the tube thereby facilitating the flushing of the pipette.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Tubes were then immediately frozen on dry ice (-78Â°C) and stored at -80Â°C for subsequent reverse transcription.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Short-term storage on wet ice (0Â°C) did not affect degradation or subsequence reaction performance.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Total RNA extraction	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Total RNA was purified with GenElute Mammalian Total RNA Kit (Sigma-Aldrich) or RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen) and concentrations were measured with a NanoDrop ND-1000 spectrophotometer (Nanodrop Technologies).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In vitro transcription	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	An artificial RNA control was generated with the T7 RNA Polymerase in vitro transcription system (Takara).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	A PCR assay for cyclophilin E (Ppie) was used as template for the in vitro transcription.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Ppie PCR product was generated using the protocol as for the SYBR Green-based real-time PCR assays (see below) except that all fluorophores were excluded and purified using QIAquick PCR purification kit (Qiagen).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The PCR product was then amplified using an extended forward PCR primer including the promoter sequence for T7 RNA Polymerase.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	All primer sequences are found in Additional file : Table 3.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The resulting (extended) PCR product was purified as above and used in the in vitro transcription reaction according to the manufacturer's instruction.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The reaction mixture contained: 50 U T7 RNA polymerase 40 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0) 8 mM MgCl2 2 mM spermidine 5 mM dithiothreitol (all Takara) 2 mM NTP (Invitrogen) 20 U RNaseOut (Invitrogen) and ~40 ng template DNA.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The reaction was carried out at 42Â°C for 1 h.).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	In samples containing ~2000 copies of the Ppie RNA the average intra-assay coefficient of variation was 0.3% and the inter-assay variation was 1.2%.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Quantitative RT-PCR	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Due to stochastic fluctuations relative gene expression levels provide little information leaving absolute quantification using standard curves as the best option to compare transcript levels within and between cells.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	For all assays PCR-products were purified (QIAquick PCR purification kit Qiagen) and quantified spectrophotometrically (NanoDrop ND-1000) using the following molar absorptivity values (in Moles-1cm-1): dAMP 15200; dTMP 8400; dGMP 12010; dCMP 7050.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The PCR-products were diluted in series to generate a standard curve ranging 10-106 copies with PCR-efficiencies spanning 77?95% (Additional file : Figure 3).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	qPCR data analysis was performed essentially as described .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Since PCR-products are double-stranded and cDNA is single-stranded one cycle was subtracted from single-cell Ct-values for correct absolute quantification.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The reverse transcriptase SuperScript III (Invitrogen) was used throughout the study.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	We then added 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.3) 75 mM KCl 3 mM MgCl2 5 mM dithiothreitol 20 U RNaseOut and 100 40 or 10 U (lower amount for single-cell-samples) SuperScript III (all Invitrogen) to total volume of 10 ?l.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Final reaction concentrations are shown.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The temperature profiles used were 25Â°C for 5 min 37Â°C for 10 min 50Â°C for 80 min.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	All reactions were terminated at 70Â°C for 15 min.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Throughout this paper we refer to absolute copy numbers estimated by DNA-based standard curves; assuming an RT efficiency of ?	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	100% the true number of mRNA copies is equal to or higher than our estimate.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	ABI PRISM 7900 HT Sequence Detection System (Applied Biosystems) and LightCycler 480 (Roche Diagnostics) equipped with 384-well blocks were used for qPCR measurements.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Reactions (10 ?l) with SYBR Green as fluorescent reporter contained 10 mM Tris (pH 8.3) 50 mM KCl 3 mM MgCl2 0.3 mM dNTP 1 U JumpStart Taq polymerase 1 Ã— Reference Dye (all Sigma-Aldrich) 0.5 Ã— SYBR Green I (Invitrogen) and 400 nM of each primer (TAGC Copenhagen).	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The Reference Dye was excluded using LightCycler 480.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The iQ?	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	SYBRÂ® Green Supermix (BioRad) was used for the Nes assay.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	All qPCR assays were designed using Primer3Plus http://www.bioinformatics.nl/cgi-bin/primer3plus/primer3plus.cgi and spanned at least one intron when possible.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	They were optimized to not generate any unspecific products such as primer-dimers that could interfere with the quantification of the desired target.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Formation of expected PCR products was confirmed by agarose gel electrophoresis (2%) for all assays and melting curve analysis for all samples.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	For RT-qPCR noise calculations 24-plicate RT-qPCR on diluted purified total mouse islet RNA was used and 30-plicate qPCR reactions on total islet cDNA.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Analysis of RT-qPCR noise	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The theoretical model is based on an empirical characterization of the noise in the experiments.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	First we consider the noise in the qPCR reaction only and determine how it scales as a function of the number of cDNAs based on replicates which have been diluted to different degrees.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	The qPCR noise is assumed to be the same for all genes.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	To model the RT-noise a parameter for the RT efficiency is fitted from replicates which have been diluted to different degrees.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Using our empirically determined parameters for the model we can calculate the contributions of the RT and qPCRs and the total measurement noise can be compared to the biological variation in a population of cells.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	A full description of the model is given in Additional file .	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Abbreviations	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	GuSCN: guanidine thiocyanate; RT-qPCR: quantitative reverse transcription PCR.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	Authors' contributions	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	MB and AS conceived and designed the study and carried out all experiments.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	MB coordinated the study and drafted the manuscript.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	MH performed the data analysis of all single-cell measurements and developed the noise model.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	PR helped draft the manuscript.	0
Interestingly, combining random primers and oligo (dT) have been successfully used for single-cell analysis.	All authors participated in the writing of the manuscript and approved the final version.	0
