The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In this paper we present two high throughput technologies that have been adapted to tilling in plants together with the characterization of a large tomato EMS mutated population.	4
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	TPAADASU were treated with EMS.	1
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Adapting efficient SNP discovery methods developed for the human genetics we have implemented two novel mutation detection screening techniques termed Conformation Sensitive Capillary Electrophoresis (CSCE) and High Resolution Melt curve analysis (HRM) which have proven to be sensitive and high-throughput methods in human and plant genetics .	4
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	An 8 fold flat pooling of the population was therefore undertaken in order to start with the analysis of mutations in candidate genes.	1
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Screening of 6700 M3 families for the proline dehydrogenase (ProDH) gene on a total length of 788 bp led to the identification of 8 mutations.	1
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The ProDH gene was also screened using HRM on the 8025 families of the M2 population.	1
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	From these results we estimate the true mutation frequency is 2.5 SNPs per Mb.	1
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In our population we observe a slightly higher mutation frequency: 1.36 mutation per 1000 Kb screened.	1
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	With the HRM platform we identified 11 new mutations in the M2 population that are different from the 6 found in the M3 population and in both collections only two common mutations were identified.	5
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	We show that both CSCE and HRM SNP detection methods are very interesting and cost effective developments with regard to high-throughput mutation screening methods or experiments.	4
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Both the CSCE and HRM platforms are easy to set-up cost effective and high-throughput technologies that in our opinion out-perform the other mutation scanning methods published so far.	1
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	After seed germination on damp Whatman® paper; http://www.whatman.com for 24 h ~20000 seeds divided in 8 batches of 2500 respectively were soaked in 100 ml of ultra pure water and ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) at a concentration of 1% in conical flasks.	1
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Background	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Generating new genetic variation by mutagenesis in plants for the unraveling of biological processes and for the alteration of agronomic traits was viewed with great optimism in the mid sixties .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Later this optimism was tempered by the complexity of using such mutants in classical breeding practice due to the difficulties in the identification of which mutation in a plant displaying an altered trait was responsible for the phenotype .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The development of plant molecular biology and biochemistry has facilitated the identification of individual genes insight into their function using reverse genetic tools such as antisense (PTGS) or RNAi .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	These technologies opened up the possibilities of developing molecular tools for crop improvement.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Although some GMO approaches have shown promising results the regulatory framework and the consumer preferences makes the marketing of such products difficult.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The advent of TILLING (Targeted Induced Local Lesions IN Genomes) has allowed the pinpointing of mutations in genes of interest .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	TILLING combines mutagenesis protocols with PCR and a method for single nucleotide DNA polymorphism detection.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In the original protocol mutational detection combined an enzymatic digestion with a single strand specific DNA-nuclease and a high resolution denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The first TILLING population was directed at the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	However there is no methodological restriction in the technique to model plants and large complex genomes proved equally amenable to the TILLING process .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) is an important vegetable crop with numerous uses as fresh and processed produce and with a high nutritional value .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Tomato breeding has been successful in developing a wide variety of specialized cultivars for a number of markets (salad cherry beef and processing).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Due in part to its commercial importance and its relatively uncomplicated genetics (diploid self-compatible) there has been a large volume of molecular genetics produced on tomato connecting genes with traits of interest.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Nevertheless tomato breeding remains challenged by a series of problems that include disease/pest resistance and stress tolerance as well as numerous other targets directed at fruit quality and plant architecture .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	For these breeding aims targeted mutations in genes connected to traits of interest creating knockouts or modified activities may provide useful material.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	EMS mutated populations have already been created for different tomato cultivars.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	One was developed on the M82 line in Israel .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The Micro-Tom  miniature tomato cultivar was also EMS mutagenised first in the French National Institute of Agricultural Research (INRA) and later in the University of Tsukuba .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Despite numerous improvements in the protocol and the use of different mismatch-specific and sensitive endonucleases like ENDO1  TILLING is still a labor intensive and therefore costly process.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Results and discussion	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	EMS induced mutant population development	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	EMS is a chemical mutagen predominantly inducing C to T and G to A transitions randomly throughout the genome .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In 2006 Solanum lycopersicum seeds cv.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	M1 plants were grown in the field in Italy.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The M1 population was the starting point for the creation of two mutant populations.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	For each M1 mutant plant two fruits were harvested and their seeds kept separate.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The first population named M2 population is composed of 8810 families.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Of these 585 families were eliminated due to low seed set.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	However any seeds that that were obtained have been stored for future propagation and DNA extraction.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The second population grown from the seeds of the second M1 fruit was grown as M2 families and 5 fruits for each of the 8810 families were harvested.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	A set of 7030 seed lots were harvested from the M2 fruits and stored in a seed bank.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	This second population was named M3 population.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Development of the M2 and M3 populations is schematically represented in figure 1 together with the screening platforms.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	For both populations DNA was extracted from a pool of 10 seeds originating from each seed lot.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	For mutation screening purposes this DNA was 4Ã— or 8Ã— flat pooled.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In the field the population showed a broad range of mutant phenotypes for fruit color shape and size.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Plant architectural traits such as plant size branching leaf shapes inflorescences and flower organization were also highly variable in the M2 plants (Figure 2).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Adaptation of high-throughput SNP detection platforms to mutation screening	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The standard system for point mutation discovery in TILLING projects is based on an endonuclease enzyme either CEL1 or ENDO1 which specifically cleaves at the mutation point by recognizing mismatches in double stranded DNA molecules.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Pools containing a mutation within the fragment of interest are visualized on denaturing polyacrylamide gels using a Li-Cor DNA analyser .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	An overview of the screening process is schematically represented in Figure 1.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Conformation Sensitive Capillary Electrophoresis	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	CSCE is a non-enzymatic differential DNA conformation technique for SNP discovery.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	When considering a DNA pool containing a mutant allele as well as wild-type alleles following PCR the amplified product will anneal randomly to other fragments that may or may not contain a mutation.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Thus several duplex species will be formed: (i) homoduplexes resulting from the annealing of wild-type/wild-type or mutant/mutant fragments together and (ii) heteroduplexes resulting from mutant/wild-type fragments annealing together.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Because of mismatches that are formed the heteroduplexes will migrate at a different speed than the homoduplexes during electrophoresis in ABI 3130 Ã— L capillaries filled with CAP a semi-denaturating polymer thus allowing the identification of pools containing a mutation within the targeted fragment.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Presence of heteroduplexes is identified as an altered peak shape as illustrated in Figure 3.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	To set up the screening platform 7 DNA fragments were selected from the SGN marker database based on identified SNP's between S. lycopersicum and S. pimpenellifolium.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	DNA from the two species was mixed in different ratios ranging from 1 in 2 to 1 in 32.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	After PCR on the dilution series PCR fragments were loaded on the capillaries and results showed that when S. pimpenellifolium DNA was 16 times diluted the SNP was still detectable as differentially migrating fragments in CSCE (data not shown).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Although these results demonstrate that 8 fold pooling was feasible in diploid material a pooling of 4 times was used in order to avoid missing mutations.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Using CEL1/ENDO1 - Li-Cor platforms it is possible to screen for fragments up to 1.5 kb in one run .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In CSCE however target fragment lengths between 200 to 500 bp are optimal .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In our experience this limitation can be compensated for by multiplex PCR of up to 4 fragments and by using forward primers labelled with 3 different dyes for each product labelling.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Combining multiplex PCR and multiple labelling with amplicons differing in size it is possible to screen for 12 fragments in one run by pooling all PCR products post-PCR reaction.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	For example three genes are targeted; four fragments per gene can be screened.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Four multiplex PCRs can be performed in each of these one fragment from each gene is amplified.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Finally all products from the four multiplex PCRs are pooled together and run altogether in CSCE.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Since neither of the two technologies explored here (also see HRM below) allow the screening of large target amplicons we therefore elected to focus only on coding regions of the genome.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Furthermore we initially analysed coding regions with the CODDLE software  to identify target fragments rich in residues that are more likely to give rise to STOP codons .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Other factors that were considered is the location of regions coding for conserved protein domains as these coding regions are the most likely to affect the activity of the protein (e.g. binding domains in transcription factors or active centres in enzymes).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	To localise such putative sites the amino acid sequence of candidate genes can be analysed with the NCBI Conserved Domain Database (CDD) and using tailor made software such as SIFT .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	High Resolution Melt curve analysis (HRM)	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	As with CSCE HRM is a non-enzymatic screening technique .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	During the PCR amplification LCgreen Plus+? molecules are intercalated between each annealed base pair of the double stranded DNA molecule.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	When captured in the molecule the LCgreen Plus+? emits fluorescence at 510 nm after excitation at 470 nm.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	A camera in the LightScannerÂ® apparatus records the fluorescence intensity while the plate is progressively heated.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	At a temperature dependant on the sequence specific stability of the DNA helices the double stranded PCR product starts to melt releasing the LCgreen Plus+? dye.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The release of dye results in decreased fluorescence that is recorded as a melting curve by the LightScannerÂ®.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Pools containing a mutation form heteroduplexes in the post-PCR fragment mix.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	These are identified as differential melting temperature curves in comparison to homoduplexes (Figure 4).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	We repeated the same strategy used when setting up the CSCE platform in order to test whether HRM was suitable for large scale mutation screening.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Fragments containing SNP's between S. lycopersicum and S. pimpenellifolium were amplified on a dilution range of S. pimpenellifolium in S. lycopersicum from 1 in 2 to 1 in 32.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	It was possible to distinguish heteroduplex formation even when S. pimpenellifolium DNA was 32 times diluted (figure 4).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Mutation screening in candidate genes and false positive/negative estimation	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In Arabidopsis thaliana increased proline is correlated with an increased tolerance to abiotic stresses.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Antisense suppression of the expression of a proline degradation enzyme proline dehydrogenase was shown to lead to elevated proline levels in various tissues and increased tolerance to freezing and salt stress .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	To create similar phenotypes in tomato without the use of genetic modification the ProDH gene [DFCI Solanum lycopersicum Gene Index: TC209088 TC589] was chosen for mutational screening using HRM.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Using 8-fold (8Ã—) pooled DNA only four mutations were identified.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	It was expected that the mutation frequency in the M3 and M2 populations would be equal; however surprisingly the M2 had a more than two fold lower mutation frequency.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	To eliminate the possibility that this difference was due to a too high dilution in the M2 screen the screening was repeated on 4 fold (4Ã—) pools.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	With 4Ã— pools 12 mutations were identified.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	All mutation events were mapped on the ProDH cDNA sequence (Figure 5).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The analysis of results from the two M2 screens using 8Ã— and 4Ã— pooled DNA with the same set of genotypes showed that of the 4 mutations found with 8Ã— pooling 3 were also detected with 4Ã— pooling.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	We conclude that one mutation was not detected using 4Ã— pooling.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	This yields a rough estimate for the false negative rate in 4Ã— pooling of 0.25 (s.e. = 0.217).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	This value is probably an overestimation due to the low number of observations (Table 1).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In contrast the false negative rate of 8Ã— pooling with the M2 samples is significantly higher than with 4Ã— pooling based on a binomial test (P   0.001).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Of the 12 detected mutants with 4Ã— pooling 9 were not detected with 8Ã— pooling yielding a false negative rate of 0.75 with an s.e. = 0.125 (Table 1).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The mutation detection rate is however lower and depends on the pooling strategy.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	No such false negative rate is available for the M3 screening.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The selection criteria used for identifying potential mutation events in the screening of the pools is based on a visual evaluation of the HRM curves.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	These pools are deconvoluted to individuals in a second HRM screen and only a subset of these are selected for sequencing which provides the final validation of the HRM results (Figure 6).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	For the HRM technology there is a clear linkage to the work load and the rate of false negative and false positives.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In order to minimize false negatives a large number of false positives are accepted in the first screen (pooled samples).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Although there is a significant reduction of samples in the screen on the individual (families) the final appraisal of the mutations is made on the basis of the sequence of the amplicons.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Mutation frequency of the mutant populations	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The seven selected SNP-fragments used to set up the CSCE screening platform were screened on 2300 individual families.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In this screen 5 mutations were identified and confirmed by direct sequencing (data not shown).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	This initial screen validated the CSCE technique and confirmed that the technique was promising for mutation detection.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	After this pilot experiment the first gene screened for mutations was the Auxin Response Factor 7 (ARF7).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	For this the coding region was divided in 3 fragments.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	CSCE and subsequent sequencing data confirmed that 5 mutations within these amplicons could be identified using the 5000 M3 families.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Screening for mutants in additional genes (Phytoene synthase (PSY) a gene involved in the synthesis of the compounds responsible for the characteristic tomato red color; Sucrose synthase 2 (Sus2) an enzyme involved in sugar metabolism during the early development of tomato fruits) using both detection technologies resulted in the identification of a total of 44 mutations over 35.2 Mb coding DNA indicating an effective mutagen treatment for our population with an average mutation density of 1 mutation every 737 Kb (Table 2).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Using CSCE and HRM as mutation screening techniques the fragment size that can be analysed is limited to a maximum of 500 bp  therefore we exclude introns from the screens as mutations in these regions are generally neutral.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Mutation screens in the other tomato populations show similar frequencies as the one observed in the present study: Saito and co-workers  estimated their mutation frequency to be of 1 mutation event per Mb screened.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Moreover in a recent study using direct sequencing with 454 GS FLX Rigola and co-workers  identified 2 mutations in 889 bp of the SleIF4E gene in 3008 M2 families of the M82 population resulting in a mutation density of 0.75 mutation per 1000 Kb screened.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Therefore we suggest that a useful mutation density has been achieved in our tomato mutant population for breeding purposes.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In addition considering that creating a valuable mutant population is a compromise between high mutation rates and minimising the risks of sterility and early development defects choice of 1% EMS treatment of the seeds and a 60% survival rate was acceptable.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	We subsequently observed a loss of 10% of the mutant families in the two successive generations because of defects in germination and plantlet development flower development or parthenocarpy.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	We therefore conclude that the mutagen treatment was optimal for our purposes.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	For practical breeding the mutation detection rate is the most relevant information as it determines how many families/genotypes have to be screened before a mutant will be found.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	However when designing mutation breeding also the real mutation rate is important as this determines the amount of non-target genes that will be affected.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Taking the false negative rate with ProDH of the M2-set into account gives a true mutation frequency of 2.53 mutations per 1000 kb or 1 mutated nucleotide in 351 kb as compared to the mutation detection rate of 1.9 mutations per 1000 kb or 1 nucleotide in 527 kb (Calculations are based on the screen of the ProDH gene on the M2 population 4 fold pooled; see tables 1 and 2).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	It is clear that an accurate measurement of the false negative rate is important.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	This cannot be judged only on the basis of the detection limit of the method here HRM.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Our results show a detection limit for a mutation  1:31 (see dilution with SNP) however with 8Ã— pools we still miss some mutants at a dilution of 1:16.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In literature  generally only mutation detection rates rather than true mutation rates are reported as usually the false negative rate is not determined.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Our complete set of mutant plant material comprises ~ 15000 families.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	These families may be regarded as two independent M2 and M3 populations (Figure 2).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	We argue that these two populations are different in that they originate from two different M1 fruits.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The treatment of seeds with EMS results in chimerism in the M1 generation.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	During development the apical meristem will form all the aerial part of the plant.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Each cell or group of cells from this meristem is from the very early stage of development predestined to form specific organs thus cell fate determination predates the effect of EMS treatment.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Within the embryonic apical meristem a number of cells will give rise to the production of the gametes.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Canales et al.  state that plant germ-lines arise late in the development from archesporial initials in the L2 layer of the anther and ovule primordia indicating that various apical meristems already present before the EMS-treatment in the seed may contribute to gametes thus giving rise to various independent mutations in the M1-plant.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Irish and Sussex  cite various authors stating that in an apical meristem the 'genetically effective cell number' (GECN independent cells contributing to gamete production) is only 2 to 3 cells in Arabidobsis which means that in each inflorescence only a limited number of independent mutations will be present.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In barley a minimum of 6 shoot sectors (coming from different apical meristems) are already initiated in the seed as determined from leaf mutant analysis and these shoot sectors each will give an independent floral spike for which already one or two cells are present per spike at the moment of the EMS treatment that will give rise to gametes .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Therefore in barley at least 6-12 independent sporogenous cells are present in the seed before the mutation treatment.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	No such information was found for tomato but it may be concluded that also in tomato a single plant will have multiple initial cells in the seed before the EMS-treatment is applied and therefore will produce multiple independent mutations in its offspring.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Also it is probable that offspring arising from a single fruit will have a high probability of carrying the same mutation as apparently generally in plants only 2-3 initial cells form the gametes in an inflorescence.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	It is therefore likely that two fruits coming from two different parts of a plant will contain different sets of mutations.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	That this is indeed the case was shown by screening the ProDH gene on the M2 as well as on the M3 population.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	These results confirm that our two populations (see Figure 2) are independent mutant populations.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	To find common mutations within the M3 and the M2 population is not unexpected.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Indeed as two fruits were randomly harvested from the M1 plants it is probable that in some cases they were collected from the same inflorescences.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In a single inflorescence it is more probable to retrieve two cells both originating from an identical gamete stem cell mutated by the EMS treatment.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Thus two different fruits may have partial similarities for mutation content.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Another perhaps even more plausible explanation is the existence of background mutations in the M0-plants.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	With background mutations it is easy to explain both results 1) that the same mutant sequences were found in M2 and M3-families in 2 out of 8 mutations and 2) the fact that homozygous mutants were found (3 out of 19 different mutations were homozygous for the M2 and M3-family analysis with ProDH).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	General conclusions on the screening platforms	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The standard endonuclease-Li-Cor platform despite being more sensitive in terms of heteroduplex detection in pooled samples  than the techniques described here is also labor intensive due to the numerous steps involved in the procedure: PCR enzymatic reaction gel preparation and loading and visual analysis.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Here we have developed two platforms only requiring preparations of PCR prior to sample analysis.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Using the LiCor/ENDO1 platforms it is possible to screen 3000 plants per day for an average target length of 1 kb .	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	However using CSCE 2.5 kb of target sequences could be screened on 1200 families per day which for the ease of comparison correspond to 3000 families screened for 1 kb target sequence in a day.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	CSCE throughput can be increased by the use of 48 or 96 capillaries instead of 16 capillaries ABI analyzer used here.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	With HRM one 96-well plate can be processed in less than five minutes and results analyzed in another five minutes.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Depending on the availability/capacity of PCR machines in our laboratory we screened 4600 families for 1 kb of target sequence per day.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	This throughput allowed us to screen 1 kb of coding sequence in less than 5 days on 8025 families starting from screening the 4Ã— DNA pools till confirmation of the mutation by Sanger sequencing (Figure 6).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Here also the throughput could be increased by using 384 well plates.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Materials and methods	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Plant material and EMS treatment	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	TPAADASU a highly homozygous inbred parental line used in commercial processing tomato breeding was selected for mutagenesis treatment with the following protocol.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The flasks were gently shaken for 16 h at room temperature.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Finally EMS was rinsed out under flowing water.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Following EMS treatment seeds were directly sown in the greenhouse.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Out of the 60% of the seeds that germinated 10600 plantlets were transplanted in the field.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	From the 8810 M1 lines that gave fruits two fruits per plant were harvested.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	DNA was isolated from seeds coming from the first fruit constituting the M2 population DNA stock.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	From the second fruits 10 seeds were sown in the greenhouse to produce M2 plants of which 3 plants were grown in open field.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	During harvest five fruits from one M2 plant per line were collected.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	M3 seeds were isolated from the M2 fruits and 10 of the seeds were used for DNA isolation and constitute the M3 population DNA bank (Figure 1).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	S. pimpenellifolium (Accession number LA121) plants were grown in the field along with the M2 lines (Figure 2).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	One S. pimpenellifolium was planted every 96 mutant lines.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	DNA was obtained and stored in 96 well plates in the order the lines were planted in the field.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Thus one well from each DNA stock plate contains S. pimpenellifolium DNA and this position varies for each stock plate A1 for plate number 1 B1 for plate number 2 etc.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	As many SNPs can be found between S. lycopersicum and S. pimpenellifolium this setup was designed to provide controls for the plate identification (specific position for each stock plate as described above) and positive controls for the screening platforms.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	TPAADASU is a commercial breeding line and may be obtained for non-commercial research purposes from the originator: Nunhems BV.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	High throughput seed DNA extraction	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Per mutant line 10 seeds were pooled in a MicronicÂ® deepwell tube; http://www.micronic.com from a 96 deep-well plate 2 stainless balls were added to each tube.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The tubes and seeds were frozen in liquid nitrogen for 1 minute and seeds were immediately ground to a fine powder in a Deepwell shaker (Vaskon 96 grinder Belgium; http://www.vaskon.com) for 2 minutes at 168 Hz (80% of the maximum speed).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	300 ?l AgowaÂ® Lysis buffer P from the AGOWAÂ® Plant DNA Isolation Kit http://www.agowa.de was added to the sample plate and the powder was suspended in solution by shaking 1 minute at 168 Hz in the Deepwell shaker.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Plates were centrifuged for 10 minutes at 4000 rpm.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	75 ?l of the supernatant was pipetted out to a 96 Kingfisher plate using a Janus MDTÂ® (Perkin Elmer USA; http://www.perkinelmer.com) platform (96 head).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The following steps were performed using a Perkin Elmer JanusÂ® liquid handler robot and a 96 KingfisherÂ® (Thermo labsystems Finland; http://www.thermo.com).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The supernatant containing the DNA was diluted with binding buffer (150 ?l) and magnetic beads (20 ?l).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Once DNA was bound to the beads two successive washing steps were carried out (Wash buffer 1: Agowa wash buffer 1 1/3 ethanol 1/3 isopropanol 1/3; Wash buffer 2: 70% ethanol 30% Agowa wash buffer 2) and finally eluted in elution buffer (100 ?l MQ 0025 ?l Tween).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Grinding ten S. lycopersicum seeds produced enough DNA to saturate the magnetic beads thus highly homogenous and comparable DNA concentrations of all samples were obtained.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Comparing with lambda DNA references a concentration of 30 ng/?l for each sample was estimated.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Two times diluted DNA was 4 fold flat pooled.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	2 ?l pooled DNA was used in multiplex PCRs for mutation detection analysis.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Fragments of interest	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	PCR fragments known to contain SNP's between S. lycopersicum and S. pimpenellifolium were used to set up the CSCE mutation detection platform.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	A RFLP marker from the same map was also selected from the SGN database: TG581 (SGN-M84).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	New primers were designed to target a shorter fragment than the RFLP marker their sequences are as follow: forward primer CGGTAATCCGTTCAACGTCC; reverse primer TTGGTCTTTAAAACATGGCGC.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In addition to this set of markers part of the Expansin1 gene was used for the set-up of the polymorphism screening methods and for the mutation frequency estimation.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	These seven fragments were divided in 3 multiplex groups.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The first group contains: C2_At4g11570 and C2_At5g63840.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The second group is composed of: C2_At1g03150 and C2_At4g24690.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	In the last group: C2_At1g09340 C2_At3g11710 and the Expansin1 fragment.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	For each of the fragments the forward primers were ordered with 5' fluorescent labels: 6FAM? for C2_At4g11570 and C2_At1g03150; VICÂ® for C2_At5g63840 and C2_At4g24690; NED? for: _At1g09340 C2_At3g11710 and Expansin1 (Table 3).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Primers for the SGN COSII markers can be found on the SGN website http://www.sgn.cornell.edu/search/direct_search.pl?search=markers.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Multiplex PCR conditions were as follows for all the CSCE screens: 94Â°C 3 minutes; 35 cycles for the following steps: 94Â°C 5 seconds; 55Â°C 30 seconds; 72Â°C 90 seconds and a final 10 minutes at 72Â°C.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	PCR conditions for HRM screens are described in the High Resolution Melt curve analysis part.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Following set up of the platforms four target genes were screened using one of the developed techniques.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	PCRs were conducted in one or several regions of each gene using the primers described in Table 3.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Screening platforms	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	A.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Conformation Sensitive Capillary Electrophoresis (CSCE)	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Multiplex PCR reactions were performed in 10 ?l volume with 0.15 ng 4 times pooled genomic DNA.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Labeled primers were added to the PCR mastermix to a concentration 5 times lower (1 ?M) than that of the unlabeled primers.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Post PCR samples were diluted 10 times.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Before the CSCE run 2 ?l of the diluted products were added to 38 ?l of MQ water.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The samples were loaded on 50 cm capillaries (injection time and voltage: 16 seconds 10 KVolts; Run voltage: 15 KVolts) from the ABI 3130 Ã— l (Applied Biosystems USA http://www.appliedbiosystems.com) apparatus filled with semi-denaturating polymers of the following composition: 5 g Conformation Analysis Polymer (CAP) (Applied Biosystems 434037 9%) 216 g Ureum 045 g 20xTTE (national diagnostics EC-871) completed with MQ water up to 9 g.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The running buffer was prepared with 1Ã— diluted TTE and 10% glycerol.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The oven temperature was set to 18Â°C.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Raw data were analysed with the HeteroDuplex Analysis (HDA) software from BioNumerics (Applied-maths Belgium http://www.applied-maths.com) The program differentiates peak patterns of hetero-duplexes (mutant) and homo-duplex molecules (wild type) thus providing the possibility of selecting DNA-pools containing an individual line mutated in the target gene.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	B.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	High Resolution Melt curve analysis (HRM)	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The LCgreen PCRs were performed on 8Ã— flat pools in FramStar 96-wells plates (4titude UK http://www.4ti.co.uk) with the following conditions: 94Â°C 2 minutes; 40 cycles 94Â°C 5 seconds; fragment dependent Tm 10 seconds; 72Â°C 10 seconds; a denaturation step of 30 seconds at 94Â°C and renaturation by cooling to 30Â°C.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	2 ?l (15 ng) of pooled DNA was mixed with 2 ?l of F-524 Phire?	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	5Ã— reaction buffer (FINNZYMES Finland http://www.finnzymes.fi) 0.1 ?l Phire?	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Hot Start DNA Polymerase (FINNZYMES Finland) 1 ?l LCGreen?	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Plus+ (BioChem USA) 0.25 ?l of 5 mM primers and completed to 10 ?l with MQ water) according to manufacturer recommendations.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Pools containing a mutation were screened using a LightScannerÂ® System (Idaho Technology Inc. USA http://www.idahotech.com).	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Positive pools were selected by analyzing the melting temperature profiles; when the pool contains a mutation it will show a lower melting temperature.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Competing interests	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	The authors declare that they have no competing interests.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	Authors' contributions	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	ALFG was responsible for the development of both screening platforms; the DNA isolation; the screening of the candidate genes; the data analysis and drafted the manuscript.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	FH actively participated in the development of the CSCE platform.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	ENVL was responsible for the statistical analysis.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	MHBJVW was responsible for the population development; oversaw the pipeline development.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	CWBB and RGFV oversaw the pipeline development and helped draft the manuscript.	0
The HRM assay has successfully been used to detect point mutations in ethyl methanesulfonate-mutated plant populations.	All authors have read and approved the manuscript.	0
