When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Using antibodies against human and Xenopus 53BP1 several labs found that 53BP1 forms IRIF in response to genotoxic stress particularly agents that induce DSBs .	4
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Such foci overlap with those previously described for H2AX and Mre11.	4
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	A variety of proteins including 53BP1 have been shown to localize to IRIF in many cell types.	4
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In lymphoid B cells 53BP1 localizes to the switch locus of murine chromosome 12 .	1
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because many cancer cells and tissues exhibit constitutive 53BP1 foci activation of DNA damage response pathways may be an early feature in human tumorigenesis probably as a consequence of the intrinsic genomic instability in these cells .	1
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Although some siRNA studies concluded that 53BP1 and Mdc1 IRIF formation occurs independently of each other it is now clear that both ?-H2AX and Mdc1 are required for the accumulation of 53BP1 to IRIF.	3
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In addition the histone acetyltransferase (HAT) co-factor Trrap and HAT Tip60 complex (Trrap-Tip60) is required for 53BP1 IRIF formation .	4
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Since Trrap is required for 53BP1 IRIF formation and influences HR does this necessarily mean that 53BP1 functions in break-induced HR?	2
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Despite this ChIP experiments indicate that 53BP1 localizes with the Rad51 paralogs Rad51A and Rad51C to I-SceI-induced DSB foci .	5
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	First in addition to the well documented role of ?-H2AX-dependent recruitment of 53BP1 to IRIF 53BP1 possesses tandem Tudor motifs (53BP1TT) which have been reported to associate with various methylated lysine residues in histones H3 and H4 .	3
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	For example 53BP1TT the minimal region of the protein sufficient for IRIF formation binds to H3 K79-CH3 independently of DNA damage .	2
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	As it operates early in the DNA damage response and associates with modified histones 53BP1 is a strong candidate for participating in both DSB repair and chromatin remodeling in the vicinity of the break or in response to other types of chromatin perturbation.	1
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In this manner DNA repair by 53BP1 is coordinated with IRIF factors like H2AX and Mdc1 in conjunction with its ability to influence chromatin architecture.	4
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	However GAR methylation does not influence DNA binding or IRIF formation by 53BP1 .	1
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Background	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The p53 gene encodes a tumor suppressor whose primary function is in transcription.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	p53 is inactivated or disrupted in ?50% of all human cancers.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Mdm2 an E3 ubiquitin ligase interacts with the N-terminus of p53 and ubiquitinates it thus marking the protein for destruction by the proteosome.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	ATM phosphorylates p53 in response to DSBs an event that prevents its Mdm2-mediated degradation and results in the stabilization and accumulation of the protein .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Using the core DNA binding domain of p53 (residues 80?320) as bait in a two hybrid screen Fields and colleagues first identified 53BP1 in 1994 .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Human 53BP1 is comprised of 1972 residues and contains important structural elements including two Breast Cancer Gene 1 (BRCA1) C-terminal (BRCT) repeats tandem Tudor domains a GAR methylation stretch two dynein light chain (LC8) binding sites and numerous PIK kinases and cyclin-dependent (CDK) phosphorylation sites (Fig. 1).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The sequences of 53BP1 that bind p53 include the C-terminal BRCT region.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In vitro the tandem BRCT repeats of 53BP1 (residues 1724?1972) bind core p53 residues with a Kd of 6 ?M as determined by isothermal titration calorimetry .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	First identified in BRCA1 BRCT motifs have been identified in a number of proteins that are connected to DNA damage response mechanisms.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	BRCT motifs have been reported to participate in various processes such as transcriptional activation and they have the capacity to serve as phospho-peptide binding modules .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because wild-type but not mutant p53 (i.e. R175H) binds 53BP1 the conformation of p53 appears crucial for the 53BP1-p53 interaction .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	To date p53 is the only factor reported to directly interact with any of the two BRCT motifs of 53BP1.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Subsequent transient co-transfection experiments with 53BP1 and p53 reporter plasmids suggested that 53BP1 enhanced p53-mediated transcription .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Another report suggesting a link between 53BP1 and transcription came with the identification of a 98 amino acid region of murine 53BP1 (corresponding to human residues 1179?1277) that interacted with the p202 transcription factor .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The significance of this interaction remains uncertain.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The crystal structure of the recombinant BRCT motifs of 53BP1 and the central DNA binding domain of p53 (core) has been solved .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Here p53 binds to the N-terminal BRCT motif and the linker region of 53BP1.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Importantly the structural analysis also reveals that the same p53 residues are involved in binding both 53BP1 and DNA making it very difficult to imagine how 53BP1 could enhance p53-mediated transcription.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This point has been previously discussed by Halazonetis and co-workers .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Although it appears very unlikely that 53BP1 enhances p53-mediated transcription as once suggested one report has concluded that 53BP1 positively regulates the BRCA1 promoter .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In this study the p53-proficient U20S cell line was co-transfected with siRNA molecules directed against 53BP1 and a luciferase reporter construct under the control of the minimal BRCA1 promoter.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This resulted in  70% inhibition of promoter activity .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Furthermore using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays 53BP1 was shown to bind to an imperfect palindromic sequence within the BRCA1 promoter element.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	How 53BP1 regulates BRCA1 expression remains unknown but it is possible that its BRCT repeats possess transactivation potential.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Implicating 53BP1 in the biology of p53 function	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1/p53 interactions at stalled replication forks	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In addition to the initial binding studies between 53BP1 and p53 some recent evidence implicates 53BP1 in the function of p53.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown of 53BP1 in U20S cells revealed a delayed accumulation of p53 in response to IR an inducer of DSBs .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	However 53BP1-defective T cells as generated from knock-out mice (53BP1-/- ; see below) failed to show altered levels of p53 accumulation in response to IR  indicating possible differences in cell type and species.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Additionally the expression of the two p53 target genes Mdm2 and p21 was normal in 53BP1-/- thymocytes  further illustrating the unliklihood that 53BP1 acts as a transcriptional co-activator of p53.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	However in a pathway dependent upon activation of Chk1 53BP1 was shown to regulate the accumulation of the ReqQ helicase BLM and p53 to sites of stalled replication forks .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In addition to the well described role of p53 as a transcription factor the protein has also been shown to mediate recombination events through its recruitment to stalled replication forks and other abnormal DNA structures (i.e. Holliday junctions) in a manner dependent upon BLM .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Thus 53BP1 is required for the localization of p53 to stalled replication forks.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1/p53 and dynein motors	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Another biochemical link between 53BP1 and p53 has been uncovered in experiments designed to understand the dynein microtubule motor complex .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Previous studies demonstrated that p53 undergoes cytoplasmic dynein-dependent nuclear translocation in response to DNA damage.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because p53 is not known to bind directly to the dynein motor complex Zhang and colleagues hypothesized that adaptor proteins would tether p53 to the minus-end directed microtubule motor complex .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	To identify such factors a two-hybrid screen using the dynein 8 kD light chain protein (LC8) as bait was performed.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Here the investigators found that LC8 robustly binds 53BP1 in vitro.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In fact 53BP1 contains two tandem LC8-binding motifs (Fig. 1).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Thus 53BP1 has been proposed to link p53 to the microtubule motor complex through its dynein binding capacity.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	How this relates to the previously described localization of 53BP1 to the kinetochore  is not clear.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Influence of 53BP1 on Mdm2/p53 signaling	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because roughly one half of all tumors have wild-type p53 activity one approach for activating and stabilizing p53 in tumor cells could involve disrupting the Mdm2-p53 interaction.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This would be expected to induce a cell cycle arrest in apoptosis-resistant tumor cells.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In this regard p53 function is a key target for therapeutic intervention.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The small molecule nutlin-3 has been shown to abrogate the Mdm2-p53 interaction leading to p53 stabilization .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Recently a loss-of-function genetic screen designed to identify components of the p53 network that mediate the cytotoxic effects of nutlin-3 in human tumor cells identified 53BP1 .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Here an siRNA bar code screen using the p53 proficient MCF-7 cell line identified 53BP1 as an essential gene for the drug-induced phenotype a result that provides further evidence for a connection between 53BP1 and p53.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Thus 53BP1 mediates the antiproliferative effects of nutlin-3 a finding the authors suggest indicates that intrinsic DNA damage signaling in MCF-7 cells (and hence 53BP1 activity) is required for nutlin-3 cytotoxicity .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This provides strong evidence for a role for 53BP1 in the biology of p53 and Mdm2 in MCF-7 cells.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	These authors also found that the deubiquitanase USP28 also participated in nutlin-mediated cytotoxicity.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	USP28 has been recently been shown to regulate the Chk2-p53-PUMA pathway and this is particularly of interest as USP28 has been identified as a 53BP1-binding protein (; Table 1).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	These two studies clearly show that 53BP1 functions in the biology of p53.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Although USP28 has been proposed to use 53BP1 as a substrate ubiquitylated 53BP1 has not been detected .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1: focusing on mediating the DNA damage response through ATM signaling	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In response to IR the histone variant H2AX is rapidly phosphorylated by PIK kinases and relocalizes to sites of DNA damage .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The accumulation of phosphorylated histone H2AX (?-H2AX) at and near sites of DSBs can be detected cytologically as irradiation induced foci (IRIF) .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Moreover 53BP1 possesses numerous PIK kinase phosphorylation sites (S/TQ) and was shown to be a substrate for ATM and probably its related kinases .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1 phosphorylation however is not required for IRIF formation  although it clearly represents an activating event.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Based upon these observations 53BP1 was proposed to operate in DSB repair.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Indeed 53BP1 has been shown to physically associate with a number of proteins involved in various aspects of DSB repair (Table 1).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	A further glance into the functional role of 53BP1 in DNA damage signaling came with the analysis of mammalian cell lines depleted in 53BP1 expression through siRNA or from knock-out mice (see below) .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	These cells revealed that 53BP1 was required for the optimal DNA damage-inducible phosphorylation of ATM substrates such as Smc1 Chk2 and BRCA1 .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Furthermore 53BP1-deficient cells have been reported to have a mild intra-S phase (RDS phenotype) and a nearly three-fold defect in the G2/M checkpoint but only at low doses of IR .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	One study showed that 53BP1-/- cells had a prolonged G2 phase a phenotype also reported in ATM-deficient cells .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This suggested that 53BP1 mediated the DNA damage response by facilitating ATM activity towards at least a subset of its substrates and raised the possibility that 53BP1 could function in ATM activation an event that is likely to be tightly coupled to chromatin structure and function .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	How cells sense and respond to DSBs has been the subject of intense research by numerous laboratories.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because the DNA repair apparatus uses damaged DNA as a substrate the DNA damage response must be tightly linked to chromatin structure and function.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In response to DSBs the Mre11/Rad50/Nbs1 (MRN) complex is rapidly recruited to sites of DNA breaks .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In budding yeast the Mre11 complex facilitates nucleosomal displacement near the DSB and H2A phosphorylation .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Here loss of H2B and H3 also depends on the Ino80 chromatin remodeling complex .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In fact ChIP analysis reveals that phosphorylated H2A in budding yeast is not associated with the break per se but rather the Mre11 complex appears to localize to sites of DNA damage .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This is believed to contribute at least in part to ATM activation .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In addition autophosphorylation of ATM particularly at S1981 (S1981-P) has been linked to its activation where it occurs in response to DNA damage and changes in chromatin structure .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	However the role of S1981 phosphorylation is not clear because mice deficient in the mutant appear largely normal for several ATM functions including those that occur in B and T cells .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	ATM activation as measured by S1981 autophosphorylation also occurs in response to changes in chromatin structure in the apparent absence of DNA breaks .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Moreover the MRN complex is also believed to contribute to the activation of ATM kinase .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Acetylation of ATM by Tip60 has also been attributed to its activation .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Thus ATM activation appears to be a highly regulated event where autophosphorylation at S1981 may represent just one facet of its activation.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	ATM phosphorylates and contributes to the activation of a number of important DNA damage response regulators.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In response to IR ATM phosphorylates 53BP1 on serine residues 25 and 29 .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Importantly ATM phosphorylates the C-terminal tail of H2AX generating ?-H2AX which directly recruits and binds Mdc1 (formerly known as NFBD1) a factor that like 53BP1 contains two C-terminal BRCT repeats in addition to a forkhead domain .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Through the BRCT motifs of Mdc1 the ?-H2AX-Mdc1 complex recruits another ATM molecule thus amplifying the original DNA damage response signal through the creation of a positive feedback loop .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	As a consequence neighboring H2AX molecules that reside in a subset of histone octamers peripheral to the DNA break become phosphorylated resulting in the generation of ?-H2AX molecules that lie up to one megabase from the actual site of the DNA break.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The precise biological role of IRIF is unknown but they are in all probability associated with DNA repair.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Indeed the accumulation of H2AX to IRIF is routinely used as a marker for DSBs.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This could provide a selection for p53 loss during tumorigenesis and has been proposed to explain the large frequency of p53 mutagenesis in cancer .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Indeed loss of 53BP1 function correlates with cancer progression in human tumors .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	How widespread 53BP1 dysfunction is in human tumors has not been thoroughly addressed.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Interestingly a human patient with a myeloproliferative disorder was found to have a translocation that generated a fusion protein between 53BP1 and the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF; ).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because in this scenario PDGF tyrosine kinase activity depends on the ability of its fusion partner sequences to form oligomers it was proposed that 53BP1 could form oligomers .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Indeed 53BP1 oligomerizes in vivo but the significance of this remains unknown .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Trrap-Tip60 binds to chromatin near DSBs and Trrap-deficient cells are impaired in break-induced HR  underscoring the intimate link between DNA repair and chromatin structure (see below).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Apparently not as 53BP1 plays no role in this process when tested with in an I-Sce I-based system developed in the Jasin laboratory that measures gene conversion .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Moreover in the absence of extrinsic DNA damage 53BP1 localizes to "nuclear dots" during S/G2  a phenomenon similarily reported for Rad51 and BRCA1 .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Unlike 53BP1 H2AX and Mdc1 have been reported to participate in HR  further illustrating the differences between regulators of DSB repair pathways.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1-/- fibroblasts however display a hyper-rec phenotype suggesting that the protein suppresses aberrant spontaneous recombination (as opposed to break-induced HR).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Clearly 53BP1 does not act redundantly with H2AX and Mdc1 during the DNA damage response.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Linking 53BP1 function with chromatin structure	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Although unlikely to be a structural component of chromatin 53BP1 possesses several intriguing links to the biology of chromatin particularly with respect to the regulation of histone modifications .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	IR-inducible phosphorylation of 53BP1 which likely represents the "active" protein associates with chromatin .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In terms of CSR in B cells one possibility is that 53BP1 synaptic function provides a scaffold for coordinating DNA repair through modulating chromatin structure in the language of a histone code.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This includes lysines K4 K9 and K20 in histone H4 and H3 K79 (by the Dot1 methyltransferase).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Intriguingly in fission yeast methylation of histone H4 at K20 has been linked to DNA repair through its interaction with Crb2  a potential 53BP1 orthologue (see below).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	No such function for H4 K20 has been reported in mammalian cells.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Tudor motifs resemble chromodomains at the structural level and associate with methylated arginine and lysine residues .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Although this modification is constitutive lysine 79 is sterically inaccessible under normal conditions as it lies in the nucleosome core.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because of this 53BP1 has been proposed to sense changes in chromatin structure that occur "upstream" of the DNA break .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In this regard a perturbation in chromatin structure as introduced through a nearby DSB is thought to expose H3-K79-CH3 and allow for 53BP1 binding and execution of its essential functions in DSB repair.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Indeed 53BP1 apparently binds H3-K79-CH3 under conditions that perturbed chromatin structure without introducing DSBs .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In the case of isotype switching in activated B cells 53BP1 activation could be induced through transcriptional events that alter chromatin structure prior to the genesis of AID-dependent DNA breaks.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Thus recruitment of 53BP1 to chromatin during DSB repair may proceed through multiple histone modifications and is likely connected to its role in a non-classical form of end joining ("anchoring") .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Previous studies have indicated that in response to DNA damage yeast H2A recruits chromatin remodeling complexes .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Additional non-mutually exclusive mechanisms may also be operative in this process.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	For example the PRMT1-dependent methylation of 53BP1 at arginine residues  within its GAR motif (Fig. 1) may form an epigenetic signal that participates in 53BP1 function.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Furthermore 53BP1 protein levels are reciprocally regulated by the histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4; ).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because one might anticipate that chromatin near a DSB would exist in a "relaxed" form that permits the DNA repair apparatus access to the sites of damage  perhaps 53BP1 activity influences acetylation levels through HDAC4 function.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1 and DNA end joining: lessons from lymphocytes	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1 mouse models	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Key functional insight into the role of 53BP1 in DSB repair has been gained from studying murine T and B cells in 53BP1-defective (53BP1-/-) mice.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The first two descriptions of 53BP1-/- animals were reported from the Chen and Carpenter labs .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Both animals appear to be null mutations and possess very similar but not identical phenotypes.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	A third 53BP1-/- mouse model has been reported but has not been thoroughly characterized .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In one mouse model 53BP1 has been reported to function as a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Previous studies with H2AX/p53 double mutant animals which develop T and B lineage tumors also showed a haploinsufficient phenotype for H2AX in tumor suppression .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because the H2AX variant resides in up to 30% of histone octamers haploinsufficiency was argued to reflect a role of the protein as a structural component of chromatin .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Interestingly 53BP1-/- mice resemble in some important ways H2AX-/- and ATM-/- mice as well as the recently described Mdc1-/- mice (Table 2).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Like H2AX-/- and ATM-/- mice 53BP1-/- mice are growth retarded sensitive to IR and immune deficient .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In contrast to ATM-/- mice which die of T cell lymphomas with clonal translocations 53BP1-/- and H2AX-/- mice are mildly tumor prone .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1-/- animals are fertile and have reduced thymus cellularity .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Lack of 53BP1 function results in mice that are immune deficient as they are severely impaired in performing the B cell-specifc process of IgH class switch recombination (CSR or isotype switching) .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	DNA repair in immune development	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	During the development of the immune system both T and B cells use NHEJ to assemble the exons encoding immunoglobulins (Igs) and T cell receptors (TCR) by V(D)J recombination .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Additionally mature B cells may express different Ig constant regions through the process of CSR a DSB-mediated end-joining event that requires successful completion of V(D)J recombination germline transcription through the switch (S) locus on murine chromosome 12 and cell proliferation (Fig. 2) .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	CSR is an inducible event that occurs at a defined (and very important) chromosomal location and therefore represents a unique system for examining DNA repair and related processes in mammalian and lymphoid cells.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Although V(D)J recombination and CSR are both DSB repair events that are completed by any of several ubiquitous NHEJ proteins they require a different set of overall factors (Fig. 2) .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	For example DSBs in V(D)J recombination are initiated by the RAG endonuclease but CSR is initiated by the activation induced deaminase (AID) .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	By deaminating cytosine to uracil AID activity induces DNA repair pathways that result in the formation of DSBs throughout the switch locus as the uracil residues are thought to be processed into DSB intermediates .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	During CSR multiple AID-derived DSBs may occur within the S region leading to both internal deletions and those repair events that properly join S region DNA fragments leading to productive isotype switching.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because S regions that lie up to approximately 100 kB away from each other they are likely to be brought into close physical proximity during synapsis to ensure a productive recombination events and successful isotype switching.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Chromosomal translocations involving the immunoglobulin switch region are feature of B cell malignancies and therefore understanding how DNA repair factors like 53BP1 function will provide important insight into the mechanisms of translocation-induced tumorigenesis.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Defective DNA repair in 53BP1-/- B cells reveals a major role in the end joining process of CSR	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Through various measurements 53BP1 appears largely but probably not exclusively dispensable for V(D)J recombination at T cell receptor (TCR) and IgH loci .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1 however plays a major role in the B cell-specific process of CSR .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	DNA repair at IgH during CSR represents a specialized form of DSB repair that proceeds through H2AX and 53BP1-mediated pathways  CSR depends on S region transcription and recombination is targeted to individual S regions from transcription that occurs from intronic promoters .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Through coordinated synapses over long ranges CSR serves as a regulated DNA repair event in B cells that operates in close association with S region transcription and AID activity.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	It is now very clear that secondary isotype formation through CSR is severely reduced in 53BP1-/- B cells .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In fact this DNA repair defect is more severe than those deficiencies observed for ATM H2AX and Mdc1 defective B cells .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In those rare cases where 53BP1-/- B cells did successfully perform isotype switching the sequence junctions at S?-S?1 appeared normal indicating that defects in 53BP1 function do not influence resolution of the repair event .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Moreover since 53BP1-/- B cells proliferate normally are competent for S region transcription and have wild-type levels of AID expression the CSR defect in these cells was clearly not due to the initiation or resolution of the DNA break.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The DSB defect was therefore proposed to occur at the level of synapsis or DNA end joining .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Consistent with this a PCR strategy that amplifies DNA only after productive CSR events have taken place showed that the defect in 53BP1-/- B cells occurred at the level of recombination .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Thus in B cells 53BP1 participates in DNA end joining during CSR probably through an end joining-like function.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because the RAG complex possesses synaptic activity this could obviate or reduce the need for 53BP1 function during V(D)J recombination.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	These results regarding a synaptic function for 53BP1 were interesting in light of a prior report that showed that a recombinant fragment of human 53BP1 encompassing residues within the kinetochore binding domain (Fig. 1) stimulated dsDNA end joining activity by XRCC4/LigIV but not T4 ligase in vitro .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	A more recent study using the chicken B cell line DT40 has confirmed a major role for 53BP1 in end joining .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In addition previous reports suggested that H2AX tethers broken chromosome ends through long range synapsis at S regions  leading to the proposal that H2AX participates in an end joining process distinct from classical NHEJ termed "anchoring" .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Similarly 53BP1 has been proposed to operate in a non-classical or alternate form of end joining .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In this capacity H2AX and 53BP1 facilitate DNA repair of broken chromosomes by anchoring DNA ends in preparation for end processing and ligation by the NHEJ apparatus an activity that can suppress translocations.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	To further illustrate a role for 53BP1 in DNA end joining a two-color FISH assay using probes designed to hybridize to sequences external to the V(D)J and CSR regions was used .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Under wild-type conditions where CSR is normal and DNA repair is intact two distinct essentially non-overlapping FISH signals (red and green) are readily seen at the Igh locus in metaphase spreads .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In contrast a failure to repair DSBs induced at IgH would result in "split signals" as the telomeric-proximal FISH signal would be separated from the remaining chromosome.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In the case of 53BP1-/- B cells a significant number of "split" signals as seen by single red and green spots was observed .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The number of split signals was dependent on AID function  indicating that in the absence of 53BP1 function AID-induced DSBs generate chromosomal breaks refractory to repair .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Similar conclusions were reached from experiments using H2AX-/- Mdc1-/- and ATM-/- B cells .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Some 53BP1 breaks progressed into chromosome 12-derived translocations (i.e. Igh-c-myc) .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	An increase in chromosome 12 dicentrics was also observed (CSR often occurs on both alleles).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In conclusion 53BP1 deficiency results in the inability to "anchor" chromosomal breaks and creates a cellular context permissive for the genesis of translocations.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1 H2AX Mdc1 and ATM have similar phenotypes and physically interact.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Therefore these factors likely function in a common biochemical pathway that suppresses translocations particularly in cells of lymphoid origin.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In the absence of 53BP1 activity the failure to "anchor" or perform non-classical alternate end joining function triggers an ATM-dependent signaling pathway that activates p53 for cell cycle arrest (and/or apoptosis) (Fig. 3) .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In addition AID-dependent unrepaired DSBs may also be repaired through translocations (particularly to c-myc) which are suppressed by ATM and p19 signaling pathways .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Interestingly the majority of genomic instability in 53BP1-/- B cells occurs at the IgH locus suggesting that this factor performs a very specific role in CSR.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	One striking feature of 53BP1 deficiency in fibroblasts T cells and B cells is the apparent lack of genomic instability in unchallenged cells .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	When 53BP1-/- B T or fibroblast cells are treated with IR or during DNA repair in lymphoid cells increases in breaks gaps and translocations become apparent .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This feature of 53BP1 distinguishes it from H2AX Mdc1 and ATM deficiencies which are characterized by more severe forms of genomic instability in resting cells .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Despite this the CSR defects in H2AX-/- and ATM-/- genetic backgrounds are moderate compared to the severe phenotype observed in 53BP1 deficiency.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Why 53BP1-/- B cells have profound defects in CSR is currently unknown but it could be related to the nature of the repair process itself.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	For example one study has suggested that focus forming proteins like 53BP1 collaborate with ATM and Artemis to resolve complex DNA end structures (i.e. those that cannot be directly ligated) through end joining .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Although its role in V(D)J recombination has been well described  Artemis is not required for CSR .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Such difficult DNA repair substrates might be expected to occur for a small subset of DSBs and this was proposed to explain the reasons underlying the radiosensitivity in Artemis-defective fibroblasts although defects in cell cycle checkpoints may also be an important determinant of this .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	If CSR at the IgH locus can be considered a complex form of DSB repair due to the unusual method for generating breaks by AID and because of the long-range synapses generated during repair this could undelie the strong phenotype of 53BP1 in CSR.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1 and p53 synergize in tumor suppression	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Murine animals defective in 53BP1 H2AX Mdc1 and NHEJ components are relatively non-tumor prone a result that is probably due to intact p53 surveillance mechanisms (Table 2).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Mice defective in p53 have been well described: at an average age of 5 months 75% of the animals die of T cell lymphomas characterized by their aneuploid nature with little signs of clonal DNA translocations .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	B cell lymphomas are very rare in p53 nullizygous mice.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	However when combined with mutations in p53 NHEJ/p53 H2AX/p53 and 53BP1/p53 double-mutant animals rapidly die of T and/or B cell lymphomas .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Tumorigenesis occurs as early as 7 weeks under these conditions and has been demonstrated to be mechanistically distinct from p53 due to its altered timing and change in tumor spectrum .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	NHEJ/p53 animals rapidly develop pro-B cell lymphomas due to failure to complete V(D)J-mediated end joining .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	This DNA repair defect results in translocation of IgH with c-myc (N-myc in the case of artemis; ) and the resulting amplification of c-myc through breakage fusion bridge cycles .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Like NHJE/p53 animals 53BP1/p53 mutants develop albeit at a reduced frequency pro-B lymphomas with clonal translocations between IgH and c-myc .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Because pro-B cell lymphomas (IgM-) are indicative of a failure to successfully complete V(D)J recombination this suggests that 53BP1 participates in some aspect of this process.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In support of this some 53BP1/p53 T lineage tumors harbor clonal translocations at the TCR? locus .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Although V(D)J defects in 53BP1-/- cells have not been detected by standard measurements  subtle defects below the levels of assay detection may be selected for during T cell expansion.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The remainder of 53BP1/p53 T cell lymphomas possessed clonal translocations in chromosomes that do not possess antigen receptor loci or were aneuploidy with little signs of DNA breaks .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	With respect to the latter 53BP1 tumor suppression resembles p53-driven aneuploidy a form of genomic instability linked to centrosome hyperamplification.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Despite this 53BP1-/- cells have normal centrosome numbers .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Thus 53BP1 appears to suppress tumorigenesis by two distinct mechanisms: DSB repair and aneuploidy (the latter of which occurs in a manner distinct from p53-driven aneuploidy).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	How p53 suppresses aneuploidy remains an open question although some possible clues have emerged.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In addition to the cell cycle checkpoint defects reported for 53BP1-/- cells  53BP1 localizes to the kinetochore and attaches to chromosomes improperly aligned at the metaphase plate .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Despite this 53BP1-defective cells have no apparent role in the mitotic spindle checkpoint .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Moreover 53BP1 is hyperphosphorylated in M phase in response to nocodazole  and this has been partially attributed to the JNK kinase .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1 has also been reported to associate with the anaphase promoting complex subunit Cdc27 .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Deciphering the role of 53BP1 in suppressing aneuploidy promises to lead to exciting connections between DSB repair cell cycle checkpoints and lymphomagenesis.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	DNA damage signaling in yeast: learning from potential 53BP1 orthologues	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	On first glance there appear to be no obvious orthologues of 53BP1 in yeast.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	However Rad9 and Crb2 in budding and fission yeast respectively possess similar functional elements (Tudor and BRCT) and parallel properties with 53BP1 despite low overall sequence homologies.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Therefore DNA damage response mechanisms in yeast will be instructive for understanding mammalian 53BP1 function.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	For example Rad9 is phosphorylated in response to DNA damage by yeast PIK kinases .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Interestingly loss of Dot1 (and therefore methylation of H3-K79) prevents activation of Rad9 and decreases its localization to sites of DSBs .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Inhibition of IR-dependent phosphorylation of H2A yields cells with very minor checkpoint defects .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Despite some interesting parallels between 53BP1 and Crb2 there are some distinct differences.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	For example the BRCT motifs of Crb2 are required for both homo-oligomerization and IRIF formation  but the sequences sufficient for this in 53BP1 lie upstream of the GAR motif and in the Tudor domains respectively (Fig. 1).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	As in higher eukaryotes phophorylation of yeast histone 2A (?-H2A) occurs rapidly in response to DSBs indicating that this event is highly conserved.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	The yeasts however do not possess orthologues to Mdc1 and BRCA1.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Yeasts defective in H2A phosphorylation have at best mild defects in NHEJ and checkpoint signaling .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Rad9 Crb2 and 53BP1 (at least at low doses of IR) are required for cell cycle arrest in response to DNA damage .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In fission yeast ?-H2A recruits Crb2 to sites of DNA damage .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Interestingly the accumulation of Crb2 at IRIF in fission yeast is dependent on both ?-H2A and histone H4 methylation at K20  a modification that plays a role in DNA repair in fission yeast .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Crb2 IRIF formation appears independent of Dot1 activity as this methyltransferase does not appear to exist in the fission yeast genome .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Furthermore in the absence of both H2A and H4 K20 histone modifications Crb2 activity remains largely functional .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Here an alternate recruitment pathway appears sufficient for IRIF formation and checkpoint activation.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Such a pathway requires CDK phosphorylation of Crb2 at T215.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Crb2 phosphorylation at T215 phosphorylation is important for its association with the BRCT protein Cut5 an orthologue of mammalian TopBP1 .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Moreover hypomorphic crb2-T215A cells have checkpoint maintenance defects .	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Therefore multiple DNA damage signals are programmed into Crb2 function allowing it to coordinate DNA repair with cell cycle progression and chromatin remodeling.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Summary	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	53BP1 plays an important role in DNA damage signaling pathways through its ability to influence the function of a variety of factors including ATM and p53 (Fig. 3).	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Importantly 53BP1 participates in DNA repair through its role as a tumor suppressor protein particularly in cells of B and T origin.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Here 53BP1 collaborates with H2AX and Mdc1 to participate in a novel form of end joining termed "anchoring".	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	In this setting 53BP1 is recruited to or near sites of DSBs where it coordinates DNA repair in the context of chromatin structure most likely through the language of a histone code.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Whether 53BP1 participates in chromatin remodeling events remains an open question.	0
When cells are exposed to genotoxic insults that cause DNA double stranded breaks, 53BP1 becomes localized to discrete nuclear foci which appear with varying degrees of rapidity and colocalize, in part, with other known components of the DNA damage response pathway.	Given its large size multiple domains and various interacting partners 53BP1 is well poised to operate as a mediator in multiple DNA damage signaling events.	0
