We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	During the course of these works we made the observation that SUMO-1 can specifically interact with DNA and compete with other DNA binding proteins reported here.	4
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	We thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA.	4
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	By acquiring a HSQC spectrum on 15N-labeled SUMO-1 at 20 ?M in presence of 135 ?M of the same DNA substrate containing a central G:U mismatch which had been used in the experiments leading to the hypothesis of SUMO-1 DNA binding (5'-GCTTCGAGTACCUGTGGAACCTATC-3') we observe chemical shift perturbations for several SUMO-1 resonances (Figure 1A) concerning mainly positively charged residues and their neighborhood.	4
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Furthermore the residues for which DNA interactions are observed form a continuous patch along the SUMO-1 surface.	4
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Interestingly only K25 and R63 are conserved amongst all SUMO family members indicating that DNA binding activity might be restricted to SUMO-1 (Figure 2).	2
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	SUMO-1 DNA complexes can also be detected using UV-crosslinking experiments.	2
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Figure 3A illustrates the formation of GST-SUMO-1 DNA complexes specific to the presence of a 65 bp double-stranded mismatch-free DNA oligonucleotide (5'-CGGATCCCAACTCCAGGAAGGAAACCA AGCGATTGGTTTCCTTCCTGGAGTTGTTTTTCCCGGGT-3').	2
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Finally as we propose elsewhere a direct competition between SUMO-1 and the TDG regulatory domain for DNA binding we thought to directly demonstrate such competition.	2
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	As shown in Figure 4 both free SUMO-1 and TDG N-terminus compete with GST-SUMO-1 for DNA binding when present in two- or five-fold molar excess in the reaction.	2
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	For the intertwining regions a higher Kd of 150 ?M was estimated and SUMO-1 competes more efficiently with TDG-N in these latter regions for DNA binding.	2
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Based on the ability of SUMO-1 to compete with TDG-N to bind DNA as observed here with both NMR and cross-linking experiments the dissociation constant of the SUMO-1/DNA complex was estimated in the range of 1 mM.	5
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	We have this established here using NMR and UV-crosslinking experiments that SUMO-1 possesses specific but sequence-independent DNA binding activity.	5
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	More importantly the fact that SUMO-1 can bind DNA and the observation that this DNA binding is in competition with the regulatory domain of TDG allows to explain how SUMO-1 exerts its activity on TDG .	3
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Interactions of SUMO-1 with DNA was performed with the 25-mer double-stranded DNA substrate with 20 ?M of 15N-labeled SUMO-1 and 135 ?M DNA in a buffer constituted by 100 mM NaiPO4 pH 6.6 1 mM DTT and 1 mM EDTA.	4
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	To analyze competition of DNA-binding 100 ng of GST-SUMO1 was incubated with 500 ng of double-stranded DNA in presence of increasing amounts of wild type SUMO1 or TDG-N-Terminus (200 ng 400 ng) prior to UV crosslink.	1
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Background	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Ubiquitin and small ubiquitin-like modifiers (SUMOs) form a family of structurally related proteins that often become covalently attached to other cellular factors.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	This post-translational modification of proteins usually on lysine residues with ubiquitin and SUMOs changes the functional properties of their targets .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Both the regulation of the target's enzymatic activity and the modification of interaction patterns with third partners such as proteins and DNA have been described.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Thereby sumoylation apparently also provides a means to recruit SUMO interacting proteins via their SUMO binding motifs (SBMs) to the sumoylated target .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Furthermore sumoylation and SUMO association have been found to influence other post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Sumoylation is an energy-dependent process carried out by a dedicated enzymatic machinery which is similar in composition and activity to the ubiquitination apparatus .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	SUMO-specific proteases (SENPs) can reverse the process of sumoylation.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Sumoylation has an essential role in most organisms.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Deletion or inactivation of SUMOs or enzymes involved in the sumoylation process lead to severe growth defects in yeast or embryonic lethality in mice .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	It is likely that lethality is the effect of deregulation of many different activities rather than only a single essential function given the variety of processes that involve sumoylation and SUMO binding .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Amongst the most prominent pathways which have been identified to be regulated by sumoylation and SUMO non-covalent interactions are transcriptional regulation and genome maintenance pathways .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Known targets for sumoylation include the transcription factors p53 HSF1 and STAT1.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Transcription associated proteins such as the histone deacetylases (HDACs) or the co-repressors Daxx and CtBP are also found to be modified by SUMOs .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Particularly interesting is the role of sumolyation in the modification of the promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) and the oncogenic chromosomal t15:17 translocation product PML-RAR? as SUMO modification and association has been shown to exert major effects on nuclear protein localization stability and activity.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Similar effects have been observed on other transcription factors .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	As a general theme sumoylation of transcription associated proteins seems to have a negative effect on the promoter activity of target genes .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	SUMO by providing additional protein-protein interaction surfaces predominantly recruits negative regulators of transcription or sequesters transcription factors by an unknown mechanism into sub-nuclear domains devoid of transcription activity .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Another group of cellular pathways heavily influenced by sumoylation and SUMO binding are the genome maintenance systems .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Genetic manipulations in yeast have allowed to uncover a wealth of genome maintenance defects upon inactivation of different components of the SUMO system essentially involving all aspects of DNA damage response replication and chromosomal stability .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The importance of regulation of genome maintenance pathways by sumoylation has been confirmed for higher eukaryotes albeit neither the targets nor the effects and still less the molecular mechanisms involved are known .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	In this context the recent finding of sumoylation and SUMO association of Thymine-DNA Glycosylase (TDG) and the regulatory effects that SUMO proteins exert on this enzyme are of particular interest .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	TDG is part of the base-excision DNA repair (BER) machinery targeting G:U and G:T mispairs in DNA.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Indeed these mismatches frequently occur on double-stranded DNA after spontaneous or catalytically-mediated hydrolysis of cytosine or C5-methylated cytosine leading to uracil and thymine respectively.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	TDG and TDG-like activities are crucial for both the avoidance of point-mutations and the maintenance of methylation patterns.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	SUMO conjugation and association have been well studied in the case of TDG and lead to the description of partial structures of TDG-SUMO complexes and important regulatory roles of SUMO proteins in the specification of TDG repair activity .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The fine structure analysis of the regulatory domain of TDG  has thereby allowed to better investigate the effect of SUMO-1 binding to and SUMO-1 covalent modification of TDG .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Results and Discussion	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Based on our previous fine-structure analysis of the TDG regulatory domain (RD) dynamics of TDG  we started studying also different TDG SUMO complexes in the presence or absence of DNA using nuclear magnetic resonance.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	We thereby have uncovered a competition mechanism by which SUMO prevents or destabilizes RD DNA interactions.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Such a competition can either be explained by a steric hindrance mechanism or by direct competition for DNA binding .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	They encompass the K23 and K25 residues of the ?1 strand H35 of the ?2 strand H43 of the ?2/?1 loop K45 K46 and K48 of the ?1 helix R63 of the ?4 strand and finally H75 from the ?4/?5 loop (Figure 1B C).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Importantly other positively charged and solvent-accessible residues such as K37 K39 in the immediate vicinity as well as K10 K19 and K20 in the N-terminus of SUMO-1 are not perturbed indicating specificity of the observed DNA interaction with before mentioned sites.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Free GST protein does not interact with DNA.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Note that we used GST fusion proteins despite their capacity to dimerize which slighly complicates the analysis of the results (ref Figure 3 4) in order to provide for a negative control and concomitant detection with a single antibody in order to exclude biases.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Indeed also wild-type SUMO-1 protein lacking a GST-tag can be shown to bind the 27 bp double-stranded DNA oligonucleotide (5'-CGGGGCCGGGGCGGGCCGCGCAAGCAG-3') (Figure 3B) in similar experiments.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	As confirmed using DNaseI digestion (Figure 3C) the high molecular weight band attributed to GST-SUMO-1 DNA complexes contains DNA.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	DNaseI treatment destabilizes GST-SUMO-1 dimer formation which conincides with a slight increase of GST-SUMO-1 dimer formation upon addition of increasing amounts of double-stranded DNA (Figure 3A).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	These observations can be explained by dsDNA stabilizing the GST-SUMO-1 dimers created through homo-association via their GST tags.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	A dimerization of non-tagged SUMO-1 protein is not observed (Figure 3B).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Our findings are further substantiated when an unrelated double-stranded 3'-NH-AlexaFluor488® labeled oligonucleotide (5'-AGCTTCGAGTACCCGTGGAACCTATCG-3') is used in the UV-crosslinking experiments and the reaction products are analyzed for their fluorescence (Figure 3D).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Furthermore as the sequences of the 65-mer and the 27-mer are unrelated and also differ from the 25-mer G:U mismatch oligonucleotide used in the NMR experiments these experiments establish sequence independence of the SUMO-1 DNA interaction.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	We then compared the relative retention of the GST-SUMO-1 complexes formed with either the 65-mer or the 27-mer DNA strands.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The complex formed in the presence of the shorter 27 mer dsDNA indeed migrates faster than the one corresponding to the 65-mer (Figure 3E).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	To this end we incubated the GST-SUMO-1 DNA mixture with increasing amounts of either untagged SUMO-1 or the human TDG N-terminus (aa1-111) and as a control free GST.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Free GST does not compete with DNA complex formation.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	These experiments do not only confirm the specificity of the SUMO-1 DNA interaction but also lend further support to the previously reported capacity of the TDG RD to bind to DNA and the possible competition between both entities for DNA during TDG mediated base-excision repair.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	A complex pattern of chemical shift variations was previously observed upon NMR-based titration of 15N-labeled TDG-N with DNA exhibiting different dissociation constants related to various sites of the TDG-N protein .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Relatively low dissociation constants (about 20 ?M) have been measured for the TDG-N/DNA complex around K64 K83/K84/K87 and K103/K105 sites.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	For the intertwining regions a higher Kd of 150 ?M was estimated and SUMO-1 competes more efficiently with TDG-N in these latter regions for DNA binding.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Conclusion	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The amino-acids involved in this interaction have been identified and are only weakly conserved in identity or charge amongst the different members of the SUMO family indicating an important potential difference between different SUMO members.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	More importantly the fact that SUMO-1 can bind DNA and the observation that this DNA binding is in competition with the regulatory domain of TDG allows to explain how SUMO-1 exerts its activity on TDG .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The proposed salvage mechanism allowing the removal of TDG from DNA after the glycosylase reaction might also be a general scheme of SUMO-1 action on other DNA binding activities such as transcription factors and co-factors or the genome maintenance proteins known to be sumoylated or interact with SUMO-1 through SBMs .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	SUMO-1 might play a general role in destabilizing DNA bound protein complexes thereby operating in a bottle-opener way of fashion .	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Materials and methods	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Expression and purification of recombinant SUMO-1 and TDG N-terminus	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	SUMO-1 and TDG-N proteins were overexpressed in BL21(DE3) strain as GST fusion protein.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Bacteria were grown at 37°C in M9 minimal medium reconstituted with 2 g/l glucose 1 g/l 15N-labeled ammonium chloride 1 mM MgSO4 MEM vitamin cocktail (Sigma) (or in LB medium for the production of unlabeled proteins) and 100 mg/l ampicilline.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Protein expression was induced overnight at 20°C following 0.5 mM IPTG addition.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Cells were harvested and resuspended in extraction buffer (PBS 10% glycerol 1% Triton X-100 10 mM EDTA 2 mM DTT) complemented with a protease inhibitor cocktail (Complete Roche).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Cell lysates were obtained by incubation of 0.25 mg/ml lysozyme with the cell suspension in extraction buffer complemented with RNase and DNase followed by brief sonication steps.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The soluble extract was isolated by centrifugation.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	SUMO-1 GST-fusion protein and wild-type GST were purified on a Glutathione Sepharose resin (GE Healthcare).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Soluble extracts were incubated for 3 hours at 4°C with 25 to 100 ?l resin per milliliter of soluble extracts.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Unbound proteins were extensively washed away with a GST wash buffer (PBS 5% glycerol 1% Triton X-100 10 mM EDTA) and TDG-N protein was eluted by digestion with Precission Protease using 25 ?g/ml of resin (GE Healthcare) in one bead volume of elution buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl pH 8.0 150 mM NaCl 2% glycerol 0.1% NP-40 10 mM EDTA 5 mM DTT).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The reaction was allowed to proceed at 4°C for 20 hours.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Then beads were eluted twice with one bead volume of elution buffer.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	GST-SUMO-1 was eluted in one bead volume of elution buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl pH 8.0 200 mM NaCl 5 mM EDTA 5 mM DTT) containing 10 mM of reduced (L)-glutathione and SUMO-1 was obtained by an overnight incubation with 1 unit of thrombin per mg of protein at room temperature.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Proteins were concentrated and purified by gel filtration on a preparative Superdex75 column (GE Healthcare) equilibrated in NMR sample buffer.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Proteins were concentrated to obtain final concentrations of 500 ?M for SUMO-1.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The protein homogeneities were verified on denaturing polyacrylamide gel the molecular mass and isotopic labeling by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	NMR analysis of the interaction of SUMO-1 with dsDNA	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	For the DNA substrates the sequences of the 5'-3' strands are GAATTCGATAGGTTCC ACGGGTACTCGAAGCGGATCC and GATAGGTTCCACGGGTACTCGAAGC for the 37- and the 25-mer respectively.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Annealing of oligonucleotides was performed by heating 1 mM solutions for 5 min at 100°C and cooling down the mixtures slowly to room temperature to obtain double-stranded 25-mers.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	These solutions were lyophilized and dissolved at 50 ?M final concentration.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	15N-1H HSQC spectra were acquired for each condition with 1H and 15N spectral windows of 16 and 36.5 ppm respectively and with 256 scans.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The chemical shift perturbations of individual resonances were calculated using the following Eq 1.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	DNA oligonucleotides hybridization DNase I digest	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The sense sequence of the double-stranded oligonucleotides used was 5'-CGGAT CCCAA CTCCA GGAAG GAAAC CAAGC GATTG GTTTC CTTCC TGGAG TTGTT TTTCC CGGGT-3' (65-mer) and 5'-CGGGG CCGGG GCGGG CCGCG CAAGC AG-3' (27-mer).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Each sense oligonucleotide was heated to 95°C for 10 minutes with equal amounts of the corresponding antisense oligonucleotide and cooled down to 20°C within one hour for appropriate hybridization.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	DNase digest was performed using 1 Unit of DNase I (Fermentas) incubating for 2 hours at 37°C prior to UV crosslink.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	UV crosslink Competition	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Approximately 100 ng of GST fusion protein was incubated with increasing amounts (200 ng 500 ng) of double-stranded DNA for 10 minutes at 37°C in NMR buffer (100 mM Na2PO4 pH 6.6 1 mM EDTA 1 mM DTT).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	GST fusion protein alone was used as a control.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The sample was cooled down immediately for 5 minutes on ice and exposed to UV light for 10 minutes (TFX-20.M 15 W 312 nm).	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	To check for effects of the UV crosslink to the protein alone non-crosslinked GST fusion protein was used as a control.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	To investigate DNA binding activity of SUMO-1 wild type protein approximately 100 ng of SUMO-1 was incubated with increasing amounts (400 ng 1000 ng) of double-stranded DNA and treated as above-mentioned.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	To analyze competition of DNA-binding 100 ng of GST-SUMO1 was incubated with 500 ng of double-stranded DNA in presence of increasing amounts of wild type SUMO1 or TDG-N-Terminus (200 ng 400 ng) prior to UV crosslink.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Western blot	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Western blot analyses were performed as described previously  using mouse anti-GST antibody (Invitrogen) and HRP-coupled goat anti-mouse antibody (Invitrogen) as recommended by the manufacturer.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	For detection of SUMO-1 a rabbit anti-SUMO-1 antibodiy(Pierce) and a HRP-coupled goat anti-rabbit antibody (Cell Signaling) was used as recommended by the manufacturer.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Competing interests	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	The authors declare that they have no competing interests.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	Authors' contributions	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	CSM: Protein purification NMR; SE: Protein purification EMSA cross-linking; JMW: Technical assistance NMR; AB: Supervision writing of manuscript.	0
We have thus investigated the ability of SUMO-1 to directly interact with DNA and shown a non-specific but detectable interaction using NMR spectroscopy and gel shift assays.	All authors have read and approved the final manuscript.	0
