All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	In this paper we describe our use of similar techniques to construct a synthetic human L1 (ORFeus-Hs) element and several synthetic/native chimeric L1 elements.	3
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Although we observed increased levels of L1 mRNA and ORF1p the levels of L1 retro transposition as measured by two different retro transposition reporter assays were only increased by a maximum of about threefold in this element.	5
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Amounts of the ORFeus-Hs L1 transcripts (Figure 2 lanes 5 and 10) were significantly greater than those observed in their native counterparts (Figure 2 lanes 1 and 6).	4
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Notably levels of ORF1p from the chimera-B L1 elements (pWA176 and pLD225) were also slightly higher than those observed in the fully synthetic ORFeus-Hs elements (pWA163 pWA165) (Figure 3 Figure 4A).	1
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	As little as 0.1 ?g RNP prepared from cells transfected with ORFeus-Hs produced a signal of strength equal to that produced by 10 ?g native RNP (Figure 4B) but native L1 RNP did not produce a visible signal until at least 5 ?g RNP was added.	1
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Although this experiment is only semiquantitative it is obvious that cells transfected with ORFeus-Hs displayed ORF2 RT activity of at least two orders of magnitude higher than those transfected with native L1.	3
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	However when similar techniques were attempted in order to develop a highly active human retrotransposon we were only able to increase levels of retrotransposition by a maximum of two to three times.	4
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Finally although recoding of the human element did not produce an increase in retrotransposition frequency that was as dramatic as with ORFeus-Mm ORFeus-Hs and its chimeric derivatives remain useful tools for L1 studies and have the highest retrotransposition frequency of the available human L1s reported.	3
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Background	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The human genome is littered with transposable element sequences; some are mere fossil records of ancient insertion events whereas others remain active.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Of these active elements the long interspersed elements type 1 (LINE-1 or L1) remain among the most active and are capable of autonomous retrotransposition  and of providing enzymatic activities for the non-autonomous retrotransposition of short interspersed nucleotide elements (SINE) such as Alu elements .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Full-length versions of L1 elements are approximately 6 kb long and consist of a 5' (untranslated region) UTR containing an internal promoter sequence two open reading frames (ORFs) ORF1 and ORF2 and a 3'UTR followed by a poly(A) tail encoded in the DNA .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The L1 ORF1 protein (ORF1p) is a non-specific nucleic acid binding protein with nucleic acid chaperone activity .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The ORF2 protein (ORF2p) is responsible for the catalytic activity necessary for retrotransposition and contains both endonuclease and reverse transcriptase activities .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	L1s make up approximately 17% of the human genome.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	However despite their abundance the replication and control mechanisms of these elements are poorly understood partly because of their low expression levels of messenger (m)RNA and protein .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	We have previously linked inefficient L1 expression to a transcription elongation defect potentially caused by high adenosine content in the ORFs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	We subsequently constructed a synthetic L1 termed ORFeus in which the codons of both ORFs were synonymously optimized based on a mouse L1 protein sequence .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	This element was at least 200-fold more active for retrotransposition than the native mouse element L1spa .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	We discuss various models to explain the possible restrictions on ORFeus-Hs activity.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Certain chimeric synthetic/native constructs were higher in activity than the fully synthetic constructs suggesting that recoding may have abolished a cis element(s) or introduced one or more deleterious sequences into ORFeus-Hs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Moreover one of these chimeras produced slightly more mRNA and ORF1 protein compared with ORFeus-Hs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	ORFeus-Hs represents a valuable tool for studying mechanisms of L1 replication and control particularly at the protein level by providing nucleic acid and protein markers that can be detected more easily.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Results	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Construction of ORFeus-Hs and the synthetic/native L1 chimeras	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The ORFeus-Hs open reading frames were designed using the same principles used to construct murine ORFeus which we now refer to as ORFeus-Mm to distinguish it from the main topic of this paper; ORFeus-Mm was referred to as smL1 in the original publication .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The reading frames were recoded to the preferred codon for each amino acid (that is 20 codons were used) except where internal restriction sites were strategically positioned to facilitate assembly of the complete synthetic ORFs (see Additional file  Figure S1).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The synthetic ORFs were fused either to a cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter-enhancer with a Kozak signal the native L1 5' UTR promoter or a combination of both (see Additional file  Figure S2 for sequences of these segments).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	These constructs were also tagged with either enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP-AI)  or neomycin (Neo-AI)  retrotransposition markers to monitor retrotransposition frequency.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Finally because synthetic and native elements showed distinct retrotransposition frequencies and to further study the sequence requirements for L1 retrotransposition we made several chimeric L1 elements consisting of various combinations of native and synthetic L1 elements (Figure 1; see Additional file  Table S1).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Active retrotransposition by ORFeus-Hs and synthetic/native L1 chimeras	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	To explore the effects of our sequence manipulations on the levels of L1 retrotransposition retrotransposition frequency was measured using several independent assays (Table 1).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Briefly the transfected HEK-293T cells were harvested and EGFP-positive cells were counted by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Retrotransposition levels of the corresponding native L1 sequences with their various promoters (pLD223 pWA174 pLD143) were used as a reference for the other constructs (Table 1 row 1).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Interestingly the construct containing both the CMV and native L1 promoters exhibited a significantly higher percentage of EGFP-positive cells (14%) than the constructs containing either promoter on its own (2.8% and 3.8% respectively).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	As for the partially synthetic chimeric L1 constructs retrotransposition levels appeared to increase as the length of segments of synthetic L1 sequence increased regardless of which promoter was driving transcription (Table 1 rows 2 to 4).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	However when the fully synthetic L1 constructs (pWA163 pWA165 pLD255) were compared with their respective native constructs (pLD223 pWA174 pLD143) retrotransposition levels were variable (Table 1 row 5).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The ORFeus-Hs construct driven by a CMV promoter alone was about threefold more active than its native L1 counterpart whereas the ORFeus-Hs construct driven by the 5' UTR promoter alone was only slightly more active (~1.2 times) than its native L1 counterpart.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Perhaps most unexpectedly the ORFeus-Hs construct driven by both the CMV and 5' UTR promoters was actually less active (0.58 times) than its native L1 counterpart.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Thus the nature of the promoter used strongly influenced the relative retrotransposition frequency of synthetic versions of retrotransposons.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Additionally it is of interest that in all of the comparisons the chimera-B constructs were consistently more active than their respective fully synthetic L1 constructs (Table 1 rows 4   5).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The B chimeras consisted of the fully synthetic ORF1 and the first three quarters of synthetic ORF2 with the last quarter of ORF2 derived from the native L1RP element.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Similar trends were observed when a two-step retrotransposition assay  was used in which the cells underwent selection for a Neo-AI reporter after enrichment for a population of plasmid-bearing cells using puromycin selection (see Additional file . Table S2) indicating that these effects are dependent on intrinsic aspects of retrotransposition not on the specific retrotransposition reporter used.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The 3' UTR inter-ORF and constitutive transport elements are not essential to ORFeus-Hs retrotransposition	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	We noted that several of the initial synthetic element constructs we made had extremely short 3' UTRs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	A portion of the 3' UTR is dispensable for (native) human L1 retrotransposition  thus we investigated whether the virtually complete absence of the UTR in these constructs could explain the modest increase in transposition rates (relative to the mouse synthetic elements).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	To test this theory we made several constructs in which the full-length 3' UTR sequence was restored in the various ORFeus-Hs constructs and tested their retrotransposition levels (see Additional file  Table S2).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	This alteration did increase the ORFeus-Hs retrotransposition frequency but only by 1.1 to 2 times compared with the construct without a 3' UTR (Table 2 rows 2 and 3).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	It has also been reported that the last 20 nucleotides of ORF2 and the first 70 nucleotides of the 3' UTR contain a constitutive transport element (CTE) that is important for the export of full-length mRNA to the cytoplasm .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Because this sequence is imbedded within ORF2 which was extensively recoded in ORFeus-Hs it was a candidate to explain the difference in activity between chimera B and ORFeus-Hs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	We evaluated the effect of restoring the CTE sequence alone to the wild-type sequence (synthetic sequence ? native sequence).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	We therefore constructed plasmids in which both the native CTE and 3' UTR were restored to ORFeus-Hs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Interestingly this maneuver actually reduced retrotransposition slightly (Table 2 rows 2 and 4) suggesting the presence of a sequence in the native CTE that is slightly inhibitory to retrotransposition by these constructs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	It is important to recognize that the constructs described here contain introns and thus they may be able to exit the nucleus via a mechanism distinct from that used by native L1 sequences which do not normally undergo splicing as part of the retrotransposition process.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Thus it is formally possible that retrotransposition in the absence of an intron-containing reporter would actually depend on these sequences.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Finally we replaced the native L1 inter-ORF region in ORFeus-Hs with a randomized version (see Methods).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	This randomization modestly increased the retrotransposition frequency of ORFeus (see Additional file  Table S2).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Thus as has been previously reported for native L1  the native inter-ORF region sequence is also not crucial for retrotransposition of ORFeus-Hs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Synthetic sequence increases levels of L1 mRNA	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	We examined differences in transcript levels between the native L1RP constructs ORFeus-Hs and the various semi-synthetic L1 chimeras.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	HEK-293T cells were transfected with the following vectors all of which contain the CMV promoter: native L1RP with (pWA174) and without (pLD223) a L1 5' UTR sequence; the three chimeras with increasing lengths of synthetic sequence with (pLD224 pLD227 pLD225) and without (pWA172 pWA170 pWA176) L1 5' UTR sequences; and the fully synthetic ORFeus-Hs constructs with (pWA165) and without (pWA163) L1 5' UTRs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The cells were harvested at 24 hours post-transfection and total RNA was isolated.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Levels of EGFP-containing transcripts were measured by RNA blotting and normalized to control (acidic ribosomal phosphoprotein P0; ARPP0) transcript levels (Figure 2).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Lanes 1 to 5 show constructs without a 5' UTR and lanes 6 to 10 show those with a 5' UTR.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Spliced and unspliced L1 mRNAs can be identified by their predicted mobilities in both cases.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	In all cases mRNA levels increased monotonically but not linearly with retrotransposition levels.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	As the length of the synthetic segment in the chimeric constructs increased so did L1 transcript levels (Figure 2 lanes 2 to 4 and 7 to 9).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	In addition chimera B constructs appeared to have slightly higher transcript levels than did the fully synthetic ORFeus-Hs constructs (Figure 2 lanes 9 and 10).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Finally we observed a complex context effect: the first three constructs (native chimera P and chimera E) which had both CMV and L1 5' UTR promoters had higher transcript levels than those with a CMV promoter alone.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	This may account for the higher retrotransposition levels observed.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	By contrast the last two plasmids (chimera B and fully synthetic) showed the opposite effect with the CMV promoter alone producing more RNA than the combination of CMV and 5' UTR (Figure 3).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Increases in ORF1p expression and ORF2 RT activity in ORFeus-Hs	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	To determine the effect of our codon optimization on the levels of protein expression HEK-293T cells were transfected and harvested as described above.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	After lysis cells were analyzed by SDS-PAGE transferred to membranes and probed with anti-ORF1p antibody (Figure 4A).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Similar to the levels of RNA transcripts levels of ORF1 protein were considerably elevated for the synthetic and partly synthetic L1s (Figure 4A).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The results were quantified by densitometry (Figure 3).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	In cells transfected with the native L1RP constructs (pLD223 pWA174) only a low level of ORF1p was observed at ~41 kDa (Figure 4A lanes 1 and 6).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	As with RNA the levels of ORF1p increased as the length of synthetic sequence was increased but the extent of the increase in ORF1 protein was much less impressive (Figure 4A lanes 2 to 5 and 7 to 10).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The RNA protein and retrotransposition increases correlated in terms of whether retrotransposition increased or decreased in each construct.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Immunoblotting for ORF2 protein was not of sufficient quality to allow quantification.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Instead to evaluate ORF2p activity from ORFeus-Hs we performed an L1 element amplification protocol (LEAP)  using ribonucleoprotein (RNP) prepared from 293T cells transfected with either L1RP (pWA174) or ORFeus-Hs (pWA165).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	To roughly quantify the reverse transcription (RT) activity in these two samples we titrated the ORFeus-Hs RNP down to 0.025 ?g per reaction (see Additional file  Figure S3) and compared its activity with that of native L1 RNP.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Approximately 10 ?g native L1 RNP contained similar RT activity to that of ~0.05 ?g ORFeus-Hs RNP (see Additional file : Figure S3B).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	This activity increase is much more in line with RNA abundance than ORF1p abundance (see below) and suggests that L1 RNA may be limiting for RNP activity.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	An interesting finding was that although the fold increases of L1 RNA and protein were all in the same direction the magnitude of the increases was dramatically different (Figure 3).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Comparing RNA increases with protein increases it can readily be seen that in the chimera B and fully synthetic cases the increases in RNA were much larger than the increases in ORF1 protein by a factor of four to five in the CMV-only constructs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The retrotransposition frequency increases did not correlate well with RNA abundance in terms of fold increase but were consistently 1.3 to 2 times larger in magnitude than the protein increases in the CMV promoter constructs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	By contrast for the CMV/L1 5' UTR promoter constructs there was a larger increase in protein level than in retrotransposition frequency.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Discussion	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The data presented here provide an interesting contrast between the synthetic versions of human and mouse retrotransposons ORFeus-Hs and ORFeus-Mm.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Our previous data showed that the generation of ORFeus-Mm with optimized codons which were presumably free of sequences that might hamper transcription resulted in a highly active element with levels of retrotransposition that were as much as 200-fold higher than the native element .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	These were shown to be in part due to higher levels of mouse L1 transcripts  and presumably correspondingly higher levels of protein products.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Contrary to the findings in mouse L1 elements the synthetic sequences did not increase human L1 protein and retrotransposition levels by the same margin.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Native L1 elements contain premature polyadenylation sites  and cryptic splice sites  that produce premature polyadenylated and spliced form L1 RNAs.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	These isoform RNAs could limit full-length L1 RNA production or compete for L1-encoded ORFs .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	In our recoding process most or all of these signals were removed and this probably contributed to the increased abundance of full-length L1 RNA (Figure 2 Figure 3).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Although the function of these signals in nature remains unknown they are dispensable for L1 retrotransposition in tissue-culture assays.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	One obvious reason that ORFeus-Hs did not increase retrotransposition frequency by 200 times is that the native mouse L1 element (L1spa) has much lower activity than the native human L1RP element .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	In fact codon optimization of both mouse and human L1 elements increased their retrotransposition abilities to a similar level (Table 1).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	This could represent an upper limit of L1 retrotransposition that can be readily tolerated by tissue-culture cells and/or a rate-limiting step(s) during the process of retrotransposition.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Elevated levels of L1 RNA/protein and shuttling between nucleus and cytoplasm may have a strong effect on the cell perhaps overloading its full capacity to process L1-RNP retrotransposition intermediates .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Consistent with this we observed that cells overexpressing either ORFeus-Mm or ORFeus-Hs displayed considerably higher sensitivity to antibiotics than those transfected with native L1s.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	For example HEK-293T cells transfected with ORFeus-Hs grew more slowly at a concentration of 2 ?g/ml puromycin than did cells overexpressing native L1RP (see Additional file  Figure S4).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	These results are consistent with studies that reported effects on L1 protein expression leading to high levels of double-strand breaks and/or apoptosis and/or cellular senescence .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	It is formally possible that codon optimization changes made in ORFeus corrected a mutation(s) in a cis element(s) that hampers retrotransposition efficiency of native L1 but results from both the study of Han et al.  on the mouse element and the present study on the human element show that L1 activity increases progressively as larger proportions of the native sequence are recoded consistent with the reported elongation defect.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	We noted that the three sets of L1 constructs driven by CMV only CMV plus 5' UTR or the 5' UTR only had very different trends of retrotransposition frequency changes.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	This suggests that different promoters somehow produce RNAs that are of different 'quality'.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	One difference in quality is the structure of the RNA 5' end; the CMV promoter fragment also contains the 51 bp viral 5' UTR upstream of the L1 ORF1 AUG motif whereas the native L1 promoter introduces the native 907 bp L1 5' UTR in its place.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	In the double-promoter construct there are thought to be two transcription start sites one identical to the native site and one extended on its 5' end by the CMV 5' UTR.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	We have not directly examined the relative abundance of these two RNA forms.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Thus the 5' UTR sequences differ between the three types of elements and it is possible that the interactions between the 5' UTRs and the rest of the RNA sequence influence retrotransposition efficiency.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Unexpected discrepancies in the increases in RNA abundance protein abundance and retrotransposition frequency were noted between the various constructs with RNA increasing much more dramatically than protein and protein increasing more than retrotransposition frequency.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	This suggests that when comparing native versus synthetic RNA sequences the latter either interferes with translational efficiency decreases stability of the encoded protein or both.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The larger relative increase in RNA suggests that the primary effect of the codon optimization was to improve levels of full-length L1 mRNA.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Because codon optimization is predicted to increase translational efficiency it is surprising that protein levels actually decreased relative to RNA template abundance.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	It is formally possible that recoding leads to enhanced protein degradation.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Native codon usage may provide signals for proper folding of the nascent protein .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Alternatively if the interaction between the RNA and the protein to form RNP intermediates is abrogated in the fully or mostly synthetic elements any ORF1 protein that does not get incorporated into RNPs may become very unstable potentially explaining the RNA-protein discrepancy observed here.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Perhaps most surprisingly we found that changes in ORF2 sequences in chimera B had a significant effect on the expression of ORF1p (compare pLD225 and pLD165 in Figure 4).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	This is consistent with models in which ORF2 protein or the RNA sequence encoding it might participate in the regulation of ORF1 protein translation or stability.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Higher levels of full-length L1 mRNA and ORF1p provide a convenient and rapid marker for the early stages of the L1 replication cycle by various methods such as immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Methods	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Plasmid construction	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Synthetic human ORF1 and ORF2 sequences were created by replacing each codon in the human L1 ORFs with codons favored in strongly expressed human genes and introducing strategically placed restriction enzyme sites using a DNA-shuffling approach .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Oligonucleotides (60-mer) (Integrated DNA Technologies Coralville IA USA) collectively encoding both strands of ORFeus-Hs reading frames were used and gene synthesis and assembly were performed as previously described .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Synthetic/native L1 chimeras were assembled by exploiting various native restriction sites (Figure 1; Additional file  Table S1).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The sequence of the inter-ORF region was randomized by counting the number of each base in the native inter-ORF region.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	These were then randomized by selecting that number of each base using the order of their occurrence in a famous novel  (Table 3).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Cell culture transfection and retrotransposition assay	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Retrotransposition assays with EGFP-AI indicators were performed in HEK-293T cells.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	HEK-293T cells (ATCC Manassas VA USA) were maintained in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium (DMEM; Invitrogen Carlsbad CA USA) with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and penicillin/streptomycin (penicillin 100 units/ml; streptomycin 100 ?g/ml) and cells were passaged upon confluence.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	HEK-293T cells were seeded at 2×105 cells per well in six-well plates and grown overnight.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The next day transfections were performed with 1 ?g plasmid and 2.5 ?l transfection reagent (Fugene HD; Roche Applied Science Indianapolis IN USA) according to the manufacturer's protocol.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The day after transfection cells were treated with trypsin and transferred to 60 mm plates with complete medium containing puromycin 1 ?g/ml.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	After 3 days of puromycin selection cells were washed in 1× phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and kept on ice before undergoing FACS (FACSCalibur instrument; BD Biosciences Sparks MD USA) using forward scatter versus green fluorescence plots.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The gating for EGFP-positive cells was determined by analyzing cells transfected with an expression plasmid (pCEP-Puro; puromycin-resistant EGFP-negative).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	A minimum of 20000 cells per sample were analyzed.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Data were analyzed using CellQuest software.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	A minimum of eight independent experiments were performed for each construct.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Retrotransposition assays with Neo-AI indicators were performed with HeLa cells.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	HeLa cells were maintained in DMEM (Invitrogen Carlsbad CA USA) supplemented with 10% FBS and penicillin/streptomycin and were passaged upon confluence.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Cells were seeded at 2.5×105 per well in a six-well plate transfected (FuGene6; Roche Applied Science Indianapolis IN USA) on the following day and selected by growing with puromycin 2.5 ?g/ml for 3 days.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	For each transfection three 100 mm dishes were seeded with 1×104 to 4×104 cells each under G418 selection (500 ?g/ml) for 10 to 14 days.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	A minimum of six independent experiments was performed for each construct.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Retrotransposition activity was normalized to activity of L1RP.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Northern blot assays	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Total RNA was purified (RNeasy; QiagenValencia CAUSA) then 10 ?g RNA was loaded on a 1.2% agarose/formaldehyde gel blotted overnight to a nylon membrane (Genescreen plus; Perkin ElmerWaltham MA USA) in 10× saline sodium citrate (SSC) crosslinked by ultraviolet radiation and baked.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Prehybridizations and hybridizations were both performed in an ultrasensitive hybridization buffer (ULTRAhyb; Applied Biosystems/Ambion Austin TX USA) at 42°C.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Washes were performed in 2×SSC with 0.1% sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and in 0.1× SSC with 0.1% SDS.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Radioactive signals were detected with a phosphoimager (Typhoon; GE Healthcare Piscataway NJ USA) and quantified using ImageQuant software.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Northern probes were first amplified by PCR purified in gels [alpha 32P] labeled with TP (Random Prime-It II Kit Stratagene Santa Clara CA USA).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Primers (Table 3) were used to amplify the EGFP and ARPP0 probes.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Immunoblot assays	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	After the 3-day puromycin selection the cells were lysed in buffer (M-PER; Thermo Scientific Rockford IL USA) and spun in a centrifuge for 15 minutes at 13000 g to separate out the cell lysate.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The cell lysate (10 ?l) was mixed with 10 ?l 2× loading buffer (0.1 mol/l Tris-HCl pH 6.8 with 4.0% SDS 20% glycerol 5% ?-mercaptoethanol and 0.2% bromophenol blue) and samples were separated in 4% to 20% SDS-PAGE gels.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	After transfer to nitrocellulose membranes membranes were probed with anti-ORF1p IgY antibody which had been generated by immunizing chickens with purified human L1 ORF1p overexpressed in Escherichia coli and purified from yolks (Gallus Immunotech IncFergus ON Canada).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Western blots were developed with detection reagent (ECL-plus; GE Healthcare Piscataway NJ USA) detected using an imaging system (LAS3000 instrument (Fujifilm) and Image Reader LAS-3000 software) at 'high' setting.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The signals in the electronic file were quantified using Multi-Gauge software (Fuji Film) a program based on band density.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Only the nonsaturated signals were quantified and the background was subtracted.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Results were normalized by using the tubulin controls as a reference and are presented as fold difference relative to fully native construct.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	A total of three western blots were performed and a representative blot is shown.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	LEAP	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	LEAP was performed according to Kulpa et al. .	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Briefly 293T cells were transfected with pWA174 (L1RP) or pWA165 (ORFeus-Hs) and then selected on puromycin 1 ?g/ml for 2 weeks.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	On harvest day ~800 million cells were washed with PBS three times and then resuspended in 10 ml cold PBS.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Cells were pelleted at 3000 g for 5 minutes in a swinging bucket rotor then lysed with 1 ml buffer (1.5 mmol/l KCl 2.5 m mol/l MgCl2 5 m mol/l Tris-HCl 1% deoxycholic acid 1% Triton X-100 1× protease inhibitor cocktail) for 5 min on ice.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The lysate was clarified by centrifugation at 3000 g for 5 min at 4°C and the supernatant was transferred to an 8.5% to 17% sucrose cushion.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The gradient was spun at 39000 rpm (SW40.1 rotor) (178000 g) for 2 h at 4°C.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The pellet was resuspended in 100 ?L 5 mmol/l Tris (pH 7.5) with 1× protease inhibitor and with glycerol added to give a final concentration of 50%.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	RNP preparations were stored at -80°C.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	For the LEAP reaction various amounts of RNP were added to 50 ?l of 50 mmol/l Tris-HCl pH 7.5 50 mmol/l KCl 5 mmol/l MgCl2 10 mmol/l dithiothreitol 0.4 ?mmol/l 3' LEAP primer (JB11560; Table 3) 20 units RNasin 0.2 mmol/l dNTPs and 0.05% Tween 20 and incubated at 37°C for 1 hour.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	LEAP reaction product (1 ?L) was used as template in a 50 ?l PCR assay with 5 ?l 10× PCR buffer (Roche Applied Science Indianapolis IN USA) 5 ?l 2.5 mmol/l dNTPs 1 ?l each of primers JB11564 (5 ?mol/l)and JB14067 primers (5 ?mol/l) (Table 3) and 1 ?l FastStart Taq polymerase (Roche Applied Science Indianapolis IN USA).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The reaction was carried out at with an initial denaturation at 94°C for 5 min followed by 35 cycles of 94°C for 30 seconds 56°C for 30 seconds and 72°C for 30 seconds and final extension at 72°C for 7 minutes.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	An aliquot (10 ?L) of each PCR product was loaded onto a 1.5% agarose gel.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Band density was quantified using Multi-Gauge software.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Cell viability assay	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	293T cells were transfected with pWA174 (L1RP) pLD225 (chimera B) or pWA165 (ORFeus-Hs) in six-well plates (2 ?g L1 plasmid + 10 ng pCAG-eGFP/40000 cells).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The following day cells were treated with trypsin and an equal number of cells were plated in a 96-well plate (~10000 cells/well) with puromycin 2 ?g/ml or without puromycin selection.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Another portion of the cells was analyzed by FACS to acquire transfection efficiency.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Two days later 20 ?l cell-viability solution (CellTiter-Blue®; Promega Madison WI USA) was added to each well.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The plate was incubated at 37°C for 2 hours and then read using a microplate reader with an excitation wavelength 550 nm and an emission wavelength of 600 nm.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Relative cell viability is presented as the ratio of viable puromycin-resistant cells divided by total viable cells (without puromycin selection).	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Four independent transfections were performed for each construct and all values were normalized to the transfection efficiency acquired by FACS.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Competing interests	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	The authors declare that they have no competing interests.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	Authors' contributions	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	WA LD JSH and JDB designed the experiments WA LD AMN AY KAO and JSH performed the experiments.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	LD AMN and JDB wrote the manuscript.	0
All transposition assays were performed using   ORFeus  -Hs that encodes wild type ORF1 and ORF2 proteins but transposes at a 2~3 fold higher frequency (~2%) than the corresponding native human L1.	All authors read and approved the final manuscript.	0
