We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Here we report the establishment of an efficient target-selected gene inactivation approach for medaka and demonstrate that the mutations that were retrieved in the p53 gene result in a complete loss-of-function phenotype.	1
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The mutant library was screened for genes involved in tumor biology (p53 and Blm encoding Bloom helicase) neurodegeneration (Parkin encoding ubiquitin ligase) aging (Sirt1 encoding deacetylase) and miRNA metabolism (Dcr-1 encoding Dicer).	4
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Although a variety of mutation discovery technologies have been established for targeted retrieval of induced mutations we chose to use dideoxy resequencing of PCR-amplified target sequences for routine mutation discovery as this technology is robust and can be automated very well at both the experimental and data interpretation levels .	5
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	We screened the complete library for 10 different amplicons covering 20 exons in 5 different genes (Table 2).	2
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	We retrieved highly likely loss-of-function mutations for four out of five genes screened by the identification of four nonsense and two splice site mutations.	4
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	All nonsense and splice site mutants were recovered from the frozen sperm archive by in vitro fertilization (Table 4).	1	1
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	We identified seven induced mutations in the medaka p53 gene including three missense mutations one splice site and two nonsense mutations (Figure 2).	4
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Among the mutants we recovered N220S and N220D of p53 are of particular interest because Asn220 is located next to the Zn-binding cysteine in loop 3 which is important for stabilization of p53 folding .	4
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Finally the cryopreserved mutant library described here is expected to contain knockouts for most medaka genes providing a valuable resource for the research community.	1
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Sequencing reactions containing 0.12 ?l BigDYE (v3.1; Applied Biosystems) 1.88 ?l 2.5× dilution buffer (Applied Biosystems) and 0.4 ?M universal M13 primer in a total volume of 5 ?l were performed using cycling conditions recommended by the manufacturer (40 cycles of 92°C for 10 s 50°C for 5 s and 60°C for 120 s).	2
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Sequencing products were purified by ethanol precipitation in the presence of 40 mM sodium acetate and analyzed on a 96-capillary 3730XL DNA analyzer (Applied Biosystems) using the standard RapidSeq protocol on a 36 cm array.	2
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Sequences were analyzed for the presence of heterozygous mutations using PolyPhred and manual inspection of the mutated positions.	2
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Every candidate mutation was verified by an independent PCR and resequencing read.	2
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Background	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Small laboratory fish such as zebrafish and medaka the Japanese killifish are attractive vertebrate animal models that are easy to handle and are ideally suited for genetic studies because of their large numbers of progeny per generation .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Furthermore fish models are being embraced because of their extended similarity in mutagenesis and carcinogenesis processes with rodent models and possibly humans .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The development of fish mutants will provide additional tools to explore the mechanisms of these processes.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	In forward genetics the mutated gene that underlies a certain phenotype is identified while in reverse genetics the phenotype that results from mutating a given gene is determined.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	To date the majority of large-scale genetic studies have been confined to forward genetics .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Although these studies are very powerful and have been very successful only conspicuous gene functions can be detected within the limits of the very labor-intensive phenotype-driven assays.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Furthermore biological pathways are often characterized by two or more parallel pathways that support a single biological process (genetic redundancy; reviewed by Tautz ).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	In particular teleosts underwent a lineage-specific partial or whole genome duplication  making it possible that phenotypic consequences of the inactivation of a single gene as is the case in forward genetic screens are masked by the action of a paralogous gene(s) with (partial) overlapping functions.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Reverse genetics or knockout approaches are well-suited not only to address these issues via the generation of double mutants but also for assigning biological function to uncharacterized genes in a genome.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Draft genome sequences for both zebrafish and medaka are already available and many genes with unknown function have been annotated .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Morpholino-modified oligonucleotides can be used to inactivate genes in both zebrafish and medaka  but there are also some important drawbacks to this approach: first the knockout effect is transient and diminishes a few days after the injection; second therefore there is only very limited application to adult phenotypes; third morpholinos must be injected into eggs in each individual experiment over and over again; and fourth extensive amounts of controls have to be included in every experiment to control for specificity.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Permanent gene inactivation by genetic modification would overcome these issues.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Although conventional gene targeting in zebrafish embryonic stem (ES) cells using homologous recombination has recently been established in vitro  no transgenic knockout fish have been generated yet using this approach.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Instead all existing zebrafish knockouts have been generated using a more general target-selected mutagenesis approach .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The germline of male founder fish was randomly mutagenized using the supermutagen ENU (N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea) and induced mutations were retrieved from a large library of F1 progeny using PCR-based amplification of target genes of interest followed by mutation discovery by dideoxy resequencing.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Results and discussion	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Medaka mutant library generation and screening	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The mutant medaka library was generated and screened as schematically outlined in Figure 1.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Founder fish were repeatedly mutagenized with ENU crossed with wild-type females and the progeny were used to establish a permanent cryopreserved resource of 5771 F1 males (Table 1).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	To get an indication about the induced mutation frequency we performed a specific locus test using the albino mutant .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The appearance of a white-eyed embryo at a rate of 1 in 272 (Table 1) is in line with previously observed frequencies  suggesting that the mutagenesis was very effective.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Most importantly it provides highly informative data about the exact location and nature of the mutation.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	In total about 22 Mbp were screened and 64 independent mutations were identified (Table 3).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The average ENU-induced mutation frequency for the library was found to be 1 mutation per 345000 bp similar to what was found for reverse genetic screens in zebrafish .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Although a full loss-of-function has to be demonstrated for each mutant individually we refer to these mutants as knockouts in this paper.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Furthermore 38 missense mutations were found in the different genes (Tables 2 and 3) some of which could potentially result in a partial or complete loss-of-function or gain-of-function phenotype.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	A very high fertilization rate of more than 90% was consistently obtained following standard in vitro fertilization procedures with only 7% to 33% of the fertilized eggs failing to develop and hatch.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Genotyping tail fin tissue from a portion of F2 offspring revealed that the ratio of wild-type fish to mutant heterozygotes was about one-to-one as expected (data not shown).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	p53E241X mutant characterization	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The p53E241X allele is a G to T substitution that results in the alteration of Glu241 to a stop codon whereas the p53Y186X allele is a T to A substitution that alters Tyr186 to a stop codon.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Both were presumed to result in a truncated protein that terminates prematurely in the midst of a DNA-binding domain.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	These proteins retain the amino-terminal transactivation domain but lack the nuclear localization signal and tetramerization domain required for full activity.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Furthermore no alternative splicing variants involving these mutation-containing exons are known in any species indicating that these nonsense mutations are most likely to result in a null phenotype.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	All three missense mutations are at highly conserved residues within the DNA-binding region but more detailed characterization will be needed to conclude anything about their effect on protein function.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Impaired target gene induction upon DNA damage is one of the phenotypes that is expected in a p53 knockout animal .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	p53E241X/E241X embryos were ?-irradiated and the induction of p21 Mdm2 and Bax genes was examined by RT-PCR.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	As expected no increase of these target genes was observed in p53E241X/E241X homozygous fish while control fish clearly showed upregulation of p21 and Mdm2 transcription level in response to ionizing radiation (IR) (Figure 3a).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Interestingly the basal level of the p53 transcript was decreased in p53E241X/E241X fish.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	This could be due to nonsense-mediated decay  of mutant RNA a phenomenon that is frequently observed in ENU-induced nonsense mutants (E Cuppen unpublished observations) although an autoregulatory mechanism cannot be excluded.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The same results were obtained for the second nonsense allele (p53Y186X/Y186X; data not shown).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Next we investigated whether IR-induced apoptosis was affected in p53E241X/E241X mutants.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Primary cell cultures were derived from wild-type and p53E241X/E241X fish ?-irradiated and observed by time-lapse video microscopy for apoptosis.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	While 13.2% (15 out of 142 cells counted) of p53+/+ cells underwent apoptosis none of the p53E241X/E241X cells (0 out of 121 cells) showed fragmentation of the nucleus (Figure 3b).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	These results are consistent with a complete loss-of-function phenotype of p53 in these medaka mutants.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	To monitor for spontaneous tumorigenesis p53 knockout (p53E241X/E241X n = 21) heterozygote (p53+/E241X n = 26) and wild-type (p53+/+ n = 10) littermates were raised to adulthood to monitor for spontaneous tumorigenesis.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Only a single p53+/+ fish died within 10 months after birth with no obvious signs of cancer (Figure 4).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Heterozygous fish developed some tumors during the course of observation (two out of the five fish that died during the first ten months had clear tumors) but the mortality rate was relatively low.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	In contrast a dramatic tumor predisposition was observed in the homozygotes with the first incidence of tumorigenesis observed already at 2.5 months of age.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The frequency of tumor formation increased after 5 months of age resulting in a median lifespan of 228 days.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	All homozygous fish died within 10 months and 11 out of the 21 animals had clear tumors.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The real tumor rate is most likely higher as a significant part of the dead fish could unfortunately not be examined properly due to rapid decomposition.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	It should be mentioned that at least 2 out of the 21 p53E241X/E241X fish died without any macroscopic signs of tumors.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The p53Y186X/Y186X fish developed tumors as well but at a lower rate compared to the p53E241X/E241X mutant.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The median lifespan was also slightly increased (311 days) but was still much shorter than for wild-type fish (Figure 4).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The difference in tumorigenesis between the two different nonsense alleles is not clear at this moment.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	We cannot exclude the possibility that co-segregating ENU mutations affect the predisposition to develop tumors in the p53E241X background.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The analysis of heteroallelic p53E241X/Y186X fish and/or analysis of further outcrossed lines should resolve this issue.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Stereoscopic as well as histological characterization of tumor-bearing p53E241X mutant fish revealed a wide variety of tumor types in kidney eye brain intestine gill thymus and testis (Figures 5 and 6).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	In one case where kidney is the primary origin lymphoid cells spread throughout the interstitial space destroying the normal architecture of renal tubules and glomeruli (Figure 5).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	This is consistent with the observation that the teleost kidney is developmentally a mesonephros which is the site for hematopoiesis in adult fish and is thought to function analogously to the bone marrow in mammals .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Considering a very low natural occurrence of tumors in young medaka ( 0.01%) and the propensity of medaka to liver tumors  the diversity in tumor types and the high incidence of tumors observed in p53-deficient fish implicate that the p53 knockout medaka are highly susceptible to spontaneous tumorigenesis compared to their p53-proficient littermates even though the number of fish examined in this study was relatively small.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	In p53-deficient zebrafish peripheral nerve sheath tumors were found to predominate .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The difference in tumor spectrum may be caused by the type of mutation introduced in the genome namely a missense mutation at a conserved residue in zebrafish versus a nonsense mutation in medaka or by the presence of organism-specific secondary genes that are differentially involved in tumor susceptibility.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	This tissue specific tumor development in different species is of great interest as this phenomenon is also found in mammals: in Li-Fraumeni syndrome patients caused by mutations in the human p53 gene breast cancer and sarcomas are most common whereas p53 knockout mice develop T cell lymphomas .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Such differences strengthen the need for parallel studies in multiple model organisms.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	We identified a nonsense mutation that results in a truncated Parkin protein at Tyr314 eliminating the inbetween RING domain (IBR) and the second RING domain (RING2) which are critical for its ubiquitin ligase activity .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Interestingly a similar mutation which results in Parkin protein truncation at Glu311 has been found in a human juvenile parkinsonism patient .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	For the Blm gene the premature stop codon was introduced at position Glu497 which removes the entire critical helicase domain.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Again a similar 515 amino acid-long truncated protein has been reported in a human disease case that results from a 1 bp insertion prior to the helicase domain .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	It should be noted that the complete knockout of the Blm gene results in embryonic lethality in mice  while Blm mutant medaka fish are viable similar to human.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	We expect that the medaka mutants of the Parkinsonism and Bloom syndrome genes may serve as valuable disease models and are currently characterizing their phenotypes in detail.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Conclusion	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The estimated evolutionary distance of 110 to 200 million years between medaka and zebrafish and the partial or whole genome duplication that occurred in the common ancestor of teleosts with subsequent diversification events in the different lineages make medaka a suitable animal for comparative approaches .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The establishment of knockout technology for medaka as described here adds significantly to the experimental possibilities in this emerging model organism.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	A compact genome that lacks the complex repetitive elements observed in zebrafish and the availability of several inbred strains  make the medaka fish model especially suited for genome-based analyses.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Furthermore in contrast to zebrafish which inhabit tropical areas medaka passes the winter in Japan surviving water temperatures as low as 4Â°C .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	This opens the possibility for heat- or cold shock-based experiments.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Considering this the missense mutations retrieved by our target-selected mutagenesis approach could be very interesting as some of them may represent temperature sensitive alleles.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	In fact the change in the thermostability of human p53 protein has been observed for the mutation in Asn239 (equivalent to Asn220 of medaka p53) .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	It would be interesting to examine the thermodynamics and temperature sensitive effect on the animal carrying these mutations.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Fish like medaka and zebrafish are becoming increasingly important models in biomedical research .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	In relation to tumor biology transgenic approaches have been shown to be valuable to induce cancers and leukemia in both zebrafish and medaka .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The p53-deficient medaka reported here and two other recently described target-selected knockouts in zebrafish  are unique in that the disease is caused by the loss of a tumor suppressor rather than overexpression or activation of an oncogene.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The role of p53 in fish cancer has been questioned because mutations in the p53 gene have only rarely been found in naturally occurring or induced tumors in teleosts  but our results and the work by Berghmans et al.  clearly show that p53 also plays a general role in tumorigenesis in fish as 'a guardian of the genome'.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Since it is known that tumor formation with oncogene or chemical mutagens is accelerated by p53 mutations  p53-deficient medaka fish are likely to become an important tool to understand the mechanisms underlying oncogenesis in general.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Taken together the high ENU-induced mutation frequency and efficient mutation discovery combined with the compact medaka genome and efficient cryopreservation and rederivation protocols have resulted in the development of a highly effective approach for the routine generation of knockouts in medaka.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	More detailed phenotypic characterization of the retrieved mutants will undoubtedly provide valuable insight into the molecular mechanisms in which these genes are involved and add to the versatility of the medaka animal model in general.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Materials and methods	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Mutagenesis	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Kyoto-Cab a substrain of Cab was mutagenized as described previously with slight modifications .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Males (102; G0) were treated weekly with 3 mM ENU (Sigma-Aldrich St. Louis MO USA) in 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer (pH 6.3) at 26Â°C for 1 h.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	After the third treatment with ENU the G0 were crossed with wild-type females to monitor the recovery of fecundity.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	A month after the last ENU treatment crosses with wild-type females were set up and fertilized eggs were left to develop to full term resulting in the mutant F1 library (only males were kept).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The number of offspring produced from a single mutagenized male founder varied from 1 to 239 presumably reflecting variability in ENU-induced damage to the testis.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Ten mutagenized male founders were crossed with albino fish (Heino) to monitor the mutagenesis efficiency using a single locus test.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Cryopreservation of sperm	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The sperm from each F1 medaka was cryopreserved as described in Section 3.3.1 of the medaka protocols book .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The sperm was suspended in 60 ?l of freezing medium (10% dimethylformamide in fetal calf serum) and was divided into 6 glass capillaries.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The amount of sperm held in each capillary was enough to fertilize more than 100 eggs.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Genomic DNA extraction	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	After removing the testis fish were cut in two halves and kept at -80Â°C until DNA was extracted.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The tail side of the fish was incubated overnight at 55Â°C in 500 ?l of lysis buffer containing 10 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5) 1 mM EDTA (pH 8.0) 120 mM sodium chloride 12 mM sodium citrate (pH7.0) 1% SDS and 200 ?g/ml of proteinase K (Sigma-Aldrich).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The lysate was phenol extracted and precipitated with isopropanol.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The DNA pellet was dissolved in 1 ml of TE (10 mM Tris pH 7.5 1 mM EDTA pH8.0).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The concentration was adjusted to 40 ng/?l aliquoted into 96 deep well plates and stored at -20Â°C.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	PCR assay design	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	For p53 both the cDNA and genomic sequence available (NCBI accession AF212997) have been published .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	For Blm Sirt1 and Parkin the medaka cDNA sequences were determined using a combination of RT-PCR and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Overall the similarity of the encoded medaka proteins to their human counterparts was 80% 80% and 90% respectively and the identity was 42% 50% and 56% respectively.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The cDNA sequences were used to retrieve the genomic sequence from the draft medaka genome assembly .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	For Dcr-1 the zebrafish protein sequence was used in combination with gene prediction algorithms to retrieve the genomic sequences required for amplicon design.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	For all genes only a single ortholog of the human gene was identified in the medaka draft genome.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	All genes were imported in the laboratory information management system for the identification of mutations by sequencing or TILLING: LIMSTILL  to facilitate amplicon design for screening and mutation annotation.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Oligonucleotides for the amplification of exons of interest by nested PCR were designed in LIMSTILL.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Details on oligonucleotides used can be obtained from the authors upon request.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	For universal processing at the sequencing stage the primers for the second PCR reaction contained M13 tails.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The sequence of the universal tails and M13 oligonucleotides used for sequencing were: M13-Forward TGTAAAACGACGGCCAGT; and M13-Reverse AGGAAACAGCTATGACCAT.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Discovery of induced point mutations by dideoxy resequencing of PCR amplicons	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Genomic DNA stocks were diluted 25-fold and gridded out as 5 ?l aliquots into 384 well plates.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The first PCR (PCR1) was carried out using a touchdown thermocycling program (92Â°C for 60 s; 12 cycles of 92Â°C for 20 s 65Â°C for 20 s with a decrement of 0.6Â°C per cycle 72Â°C for 30 s; followed by 20 cycles of 92Â°C for 20 s 58Â°C for 20 s and 72Â°C for 30 s; 72Â°C for 180 s; GeneAmp9700 Applied Biosystems Foster City CA USA).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	This reaction contained 5 ?l genomic DNA 0.2 ?M forward primer and 0.2 ?M reverse primer 400 ?M of each dNTP 25 mM tricine 7.0% (w/v) glycerol 1.6% (w/v) DMSO 2 mM MgCl2 85 mM ammonium acetate pH 8.7 and 0.2 U Taq polymerase in a total volume of 10 ?l.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	After thermocycling the PCR1 reactions were diluted with 25 ?l water mixed by pipetting and 1 ?l was used as template for the second round of PCR.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The second PCR (PCR2) was done using a standard thermocycling program (92Â°C for 60 s; 30 cycles of 92Â°C for 20 s 58Â°C for 20 s and 72Â°C for 30 s; 72Â°C for 180 s; GeneAmp9700 Applied Biosystems).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	PCR2 mixes contained 1 ?l diluted PCR1 template 0.1 ?M forward primer 0.1 ?M reverse primer 100 ?M of each dNTP 25 mM tricine 7.0% (w/v) glycerol 1.6% (w/v) DMSO 2 mM MgCl2 85 mM ammonium acetate pH 8.7 and 0.1 U Taq polymerase in a total volume of 5 ?l.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Several samples of each amplicon were tested on a 1% agarose gel containing ethidium bromide for the presence of the proper PCR fragment.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	PCR2 products were diluted with 20 ?l water and 1 ?l was directly used as template for the sequencing reactions.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Nucleotide variations that were present in more than two F1 fish were considered to be single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and therefore excluded from further analysis while mutations found in only two animals were included as examination of the breeding records revealed that in most cases these originated from the same mutagenized parent and are thus most likely to be derived from the same spermatogonial stem cell.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	These mutations are counted as a single mutation.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	In vitro fertilization	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	About 100 unfertilized eggs were squeezed out from the wild-type cab females.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	A single glass capillary containing 10 ?l of sperm from the F1 fish identified in the screening was removed from the liquid nitrogen and thawed by placing at ambient temperature.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Immediately after the sperm was thawed the content was pushed out in balanced salt solution (BSS; 0.65% sodium chloride 0.04% potassium chloride 0.02% magnesium sulfate heptahydrate 0.02% calcium chloride dihydrate 0.00005% phenol red 0.01% sodium hydrogen carbonate pH 7.3) and incubated with the eggs for 20 minutes with occasional pipetting.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The eggs that were not fertilized were removed 3 h later and BSS was replaced with 0.03% Red Sea salt water.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The eggs were incubated at 28Â°C until they hatched.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The quality of thawed sperm and the fertilization rate was checked under the microscope.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Only a single cryopreserved straw (out of six straws frozen in total) was needed for successful recovery of each mutation of interest.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	For each in vitro fertilization between 66 and 88 fish were obtained that developed to adulthood.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Progeny were genotyped by sequencing and heterozygous fish carrying the mutation of interest were incrossed to obtain homozygous fish.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	p53 target gene induction	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	For most of the studies the p53E241X allele was used.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	F2 p53+/E241X heterozygous fish resulting from the in vitro fertilization were incrossed to produce F3 progeny of all genotypes.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Four days post-fertilization F3 embryos were irradiated with 20 Gy of ionizing radiation using 137Cs (0.02 Gy/s Gammacell 40 Atomic Energy of Canada Limited Industrial Products Ontario).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Six hours later the embryos were frozen in liquid nitrogen and RNA was extracted by Trizol (Invitrogen Carlsbad CA USA) according to the manufacturer's instruction.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The embryos were genotyped by PCR and resequencing of the simultaneously extracted genomic DNA.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	cDNA was synthesized from each genotype using SuperScript III (Invitrogen).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The mRNA expression levels were determined by PCR reactions (94Â°C for 1 minute; predetermined cycles of 94Â°C for 30 s 55Â°C for 20 s 72Â°C for 30 s).	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The numbers of cycles used were: ?-actin 15; Mdm2 24; and p53 p21 and Bax 26.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Details on oligonucleotides used can be obtained from the authors upon request.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Apoptosis assay	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Primary cell cultures derived from p53E241X/E241X and p53+/+ embryos were obtained as described previously .	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Cells (1.5 Ã— 105) were inoculated in a 35 mm dish and irradiated with 10 Gy of ?-rays.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	The cells were monitored for fragmentation using a IX81 inverted microscope (Olympus Tokyo Japan) controlled by IPLab software (BD Biosciences Rockville MD USA) from zero to eight hours after ?-irradiation.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Histology	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	After tumors were observed under the stereomicroscope fish were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde for 24 hours and embedded in paraffin.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Tissue sections were stained by standard hematoxylin-eosin staining.	0
We first used the HRM assay to screen mutations in exons 5 and 6 of the   p53   gene because the same library was previously screened with the direct sequencing method.	Photographs of the slides were obtained by a VC4500G digital camera (Omron Kyoto Japan) mounted on an ECLIPSE E800 microscope (Nikon Tokyo Japan).	0
