We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	If a series of overlapping forward query sequences and their corresponding downstream pairing sequences were all identified from the same hairpin structure each of them was initially considered as an individual 21-mer.	3
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For each miRNA::mRNA pair the miRNA sequence was linked by 'LLL' to the target mRNA sequence. 5
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The 'LLL' linker sequence tells the mfold program to treat the miRNA and target sequence as two separate RNA sequences for energy calculation . 5
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Background	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding RNA molecules with important regulatory functions in eukaryotic gene expression.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The majority of known mature miRNAs are about 21-23 nucleotides long and have been found in a wide range of eukaryotes from Arabidopsis thaliana and Caenorhabditis elegans to mouse and human (reviewed in ).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Over 300 miRNAs have been identified in different organisms to date primarily through cloning and sequencing of short RNA molecules .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Experimental miRNA identification is technically challenging and incomplete for the following reasons: miRNAs tend to have highly constrained tissue- and time-specific expression patterns; degradation products from mRNAs and other endogenous non-coding RNAs coexist with miRNAs and are sometimes dominant in small RNA molecule samples extracted from cells.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Several groups have attempted to screen for new Arabidopsis miRNAs by sequencing small RNA molecules but only 19 unique Arabidopsis miRNAs have been found so far .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	While intensive research has unmasked several aspects of miRNA function less is known about the regulation of miRNA transcription and precursor processing.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A recent study shows a 116 base-pair (bp) temporal regulatory element located approximately 1200 bases upstream of C. elegans let-7 is sufficient for its specific expression at different developmental stages .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For some animal miRNAs longer transcripts have been shown to exist in the nucleus before they are processed into shorter miRNA precursors .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Expressed sequence tag (EST) searches indicate that some human and mouse miRNAs are co-transcribed along with their upstream and downstream neighboring genes .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Most known animal miRNA precursors are approximately 70 nucleotides long whereas the lengths of plant miRNA precursor vary widely some extending up to 300 nucleotides .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	As short mature miRNAs are generated from hairpin-structured precursors by an RNase III-like enzyme termed Dicer (reviewed in ) evidence for miRNA expression based on the presence of longer precursor RNAs is likely to be found in genome-wide expression databases.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Most known miRNAs are conserved in related species .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Strong sequence conservation in the mature miRNA and long hairpin structures in miRNA precursors make genome-wide computational searches for miRNAs feasible.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A variety of computational methods have been applied to several animal genomes including Drosophila melanogaster C. elegans and humans .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In each case a subset of computationally predicted miRNA genes was validated by northern blot hybridizations or PCR.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A known function of miRNAs is to downregulate the translation of target mRNAs through base-pairing to the target mRNA .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In animals miRNAs tend to bind to the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) of their target transcripts to repress translation.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The pairing between miRNAs and their target mRNAs usually includes short bulges and/or mismatches .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In contrast in all known cases plant miRNAs bind to the protein-coding region of their target mRNAs with three or fewer mismatches and induce target mRNA degradation  or repress mRNA translation .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Several groups have developed computational methods to predict miRNA targets in Arabidopsis Drosophila and humans .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In the work reported here we defined and applied a computational method to predict A. thaliana miRNAs and their target mRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Focusing on sequences that are conserved in both A. thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice) we predicted 95 Arabidopsis miRNAs including 12 of 19 known miRNAs and 83 new candidates.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Northern blot hybridizations specific for 18 randomly selected miRNA candidates detected the expression of 12 miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The sequences of another eight predicted miRNAs were found in the public Arabidopsis Small RNA Project (ASRP) database .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We also found massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) evidence for 14 known Arabidopsis miRNAs and 16 predicted ones.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For 77 of the 83 predicted miRNAs we found putative target transcripts that were functionally conserved between Arabidopsis and O. sativa with a signal-to-noise ratio of 4.1 to 1.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Finally we find supporting evidence for miRNA regulation of some mRNA targets using available genome-wide microarray data.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The authentication of three predicted miRNA targets was validated by identification of the corresponding cleaved mRNA products.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Results	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Prediction of Arabidopsis miRNAs	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	To predict new miRNAs by computational methods we defined sequence and structure properties that differentiate known Arabidopsis miRNA sequences from random genomic sequence and used these properties as constraints to screen intergenic regions in the A. thaliana genome sequences for candidate miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Besides the well known hairpin secondary structure of miRNA precursors the 19 unique known Arabidopsis miRNAs collected in Rfam  were evaluated for the following computable sequence properties: G+C content in mature miRNA sequences hairpin-loop length in their precursor RNA structures number and distribution of mismatches in the hairpin stem region containing the mature miRNA sequence and phylogenetic conservation of mature miRNA sequences in the O. sativa genome.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Sequences of all 19 known Arabidopsis miRNAs had a G+C content ranging from 38% to 70%.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For 15 of the 19 miRNAs the predicted secondary structure of their precursors or at least one precursor if a miRNA has multiple genomic loci had a hairpin-loop length ranging from 20 to 75 nucleotides.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In the hairpin structures formed by miRNA precursors all miRNAs were found in the stem region of the hairpin and had at least 75% sequence complementarity to their counterparts.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Fifteen of 19 miRNAs were conserved with at least 90% sequence identity in the O. sativa genome.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Thus constraints of G+C content between 38 and 70% a loop length between 20 and 75 nucleotides and a minimum of 90% sequence identity in O. sativa were used to predict Arabidopsis miRNA.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The first step was to search for potential hairpin structures in the Arabidopsis intergenic sequences.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	As most known Arabidopsis miRNAs are around 21 nucleotides long we used a 21-nucleotide query window to search each intergenic region for potential miRNA precursors as follows: for each successive 21-nucleotide query subsequence if a 21-nucleotide pairing subsequence with more than 75% sequence complementarity was found downstream within a given distance (hairpin-loop length) the entire sequence from the beginning of the query subsequence to the end of the complement pairing subsequence with a 20-nucleotide extension at each side was extracted and marked as a possible hairpin sequence (see Materials and methods for details).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The minimum and maximum hairpin-loop lengths used in this prediction were 20 and 75 nucleotides.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Each 21-nucleotide query subsequence and its downstream complementary subsequence were considered as 'potential 21-mer miRNA candidates' (referred to as '21-mers').	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The second step was to parse miRNA candidates according to their nucleotide composition and sequence conservation.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A filter of G+C content between 38 and 70% was applied to all 21-mers obtained from the above step followed by a requirement for more than 90% sequence identity in the O. sativa genome.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The secondary structures of the resulting candidates were evaluated by mfold .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Only 21-mers whose Arabidopsis precursor and corresponding rice ortholog precursor both had putative stem-loop structures as their lowest free energy form reported by mfold were retained.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Because some non-coding RNA genes were not included in the current Arabidopsis gene annotation orthologs of known non-coding RNA genes other than miRNAs were subsequently removed by aligning the 21-mers to non-coding RNAs collected in Rfam with BLASTN (version 2.2.6) .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The 21-mers that passed all sequence and structure filters above were considered as final miRNA candidates.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A summary of the prediction algorithm is shown in Figure 1.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In cases where two or more overlapping 21-mer miRNA candidates from the same precursor were collected in the final miRNA candidate set each miRNA candidate was scored using the following formula:	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	miRNAscore = number of mismatches + (2 × number of nucleotides in terminal mismatches) + (number of nucleotides in internal bulges/number of internal bulges) + 1 if the miRNA sequence does not start with U.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The term 'terminal mismatches' in the formula above refers to consecutive mismatches among the beginning and/or ending nucleotides of a mature miRNA sequence.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The term 'bulge' refers to a series of mismatched nucleotides.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Because the sequences of most known miRNAs start with a U a U-start preference was used in the formula above by penalizing non-U-start sequences.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The sequence with the lowest miRNAscore from a series of overlapping 21-mers was selected as the final miRNA candidate.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In total we predicted 95 miRNA candidates in the Arabidopsis genome including 12 known Arabidopsis miRNAs and 83 new candidates.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The former group corresponds to 63% of known Arabidopsis miRNAs to date (12 of 19).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The remaining seven known miRNAs not included in the current prediction were filtered out as a result of their lower sequence conservation in the rice genome or longer loop length in their secondary structure as outlined in Figure 1.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Because of the complementarity between the two DNA strands of a given genome region theoretically there should be two sequence possibilities for a predicted miRNA: the predicted sequence itself or alternatively its reverse complementary sequence located on the opposite strand of the genome.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In many cases however owing to G::U pairing in RNA structure prediction the complementary sequence of a miRNA precursor did not always exhibit a hairpin structure as its lowest energy folding form because the complement of a G::U pair that is C::A altered the secondary structure.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Thus we were able to identify the coding strand of most predicted miRNA candidates through secondary structure evaluation.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Furthermore as described in the following sections the sequences/partial sequences of some miRNA candidates or their precursors could be found in the Arabidopsis MPSS data used.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	As most MPSS data probably represent the expression of their associated miRNAs we were able to use them to predict the miRNA coding strand.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The coding strand of miRNA candidates that were contained in the ASRP database was determined according to cloned RNA sequences (see below for details).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The complete list of predicted miRNAs is shown in Additional data file 1.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Experimental validation of predicted miRNAs	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	To gain support for the expression of the predicted miRNAs northern blot hybridizations were carried out using RNA samples from different tissues selected to cover a spectrum of potential miRNA expression patterns.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Using strand-specific oligonucleotide probes positive signals of expression were detected for 14 out of 18 miRNA candidates tested.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The results for all newly identified miRNAs are shown in Figure 2a and 2b.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Oligonucleotide probes against the antisense strand of different miRNA candidates were used as negative controls and none produced any signal as shown for miR417 in Figure 2b.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Note that an extended exposure time was needed to detect expression of most miRNAs (indicated by a number in days in parentheses in Figure 2) suggesting that their abundance is significantly lower than that of other known miRNAs (that is miR158 and miR159a in Figure 2c and data not shown).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In this analysis we also included 10 21-mers that were rejected by our miRNA prediction criteria as negative controls to evaluate the specificity of northern blot hybridization; as expected none of them produced a positive signal.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The secondary structures of a few selected northern blot hybridization-positive miRNA candidates are shown in Figure 3.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A full list of the secondary structures of predicted precursors of Arabidopsis miRNA candidates and their rice orthologs is available in Additional data file 2.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Among the 14 miRNAs that produced positive signals in the northern blot hybridizations two are close paralogs of known miRNAs; miR169b is a paralog of miR169 and miR171b is a paralog of miR170.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Because it is impossible to distinguish closely related sequences by northern blot hybridization we were unable to rule out the possibility that signals detected by probes for miR169b and miR171b were contributed by their known miRNA paralogs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	However as miR169b was also identified in the ASRP database (see next section) we were able to conclude that miR169b was a real miRNA.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Thus 12 candidates validated by northern blot hybridization should be annotated as bona fide miRNAs (see Table 1 for a summary).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Cloning evidence for predicted miRNAs	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	An ASRP database has recently been made publicly available .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Sequences in the ASRP database were collected by cloning small RNA molecules with similar size to miRNAs and siRNAs .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	To check whether any of our predicted miRNAs can be identified by a standard RNA cloning method we compared the 83 predicted miRNA candidates with all sequences in the ASRP database.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Eight newly predicted miRNA candidates were found in the ASRP database (Figure 4).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Among them five were identical to one or more cloned RNA molecules indicating that we had correctly predicted the 5' and 3' ends and the actual length of these miRNA candidates.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For the other three candidates our predicted sequences were either shorter than or a few nucleotides shifted from their corresponding clones in the ASRP database.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The exact sequences of these three miRNA candidates were then corrected according to the corresponding sequences in the ASRP database.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The expression of miR169b and miR172b* was also detected by northern blot hybridization (Figure 2a).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Although miR169h was present in the ASRP database it could not be detected by northern blot hybridization (see Additional data file 1).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	According to the current miRNA annotation criteria  these eight predicted miRNA candidates with corresponding cloned sequences in the ASRP database should be annotated as bona fide miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	MPSS evidence for known and predicted Arabidopsis miRNAs	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	To further validate the predicted miRNA molecules we took advantage of available Arabidopsis massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) data.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The MPSS sequencing technology identifies unique 17-nucleotide sequences present in cDNA molecules originated from polyadenylated RNA extracted from a cell sample.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	By inserting cDNA molecules into a cloning vector containing distinct 32-mer oligonucleotide tags the MPSS technology ensures that each cDNA molecule is ligated to a unique tag and that more than 99% of the total cDNAs are represented after the cloning step.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Tagged cDNAs are then amplified by PCR and hybridized to microbeads that have been precoated with multiple copies of unique anti-tags complementary to one type of 32-nucleotide tag.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The expression level of a particular transcript is measured by counting the number of distinct microbeads that contain the same 17-nucleotide cDNA sequence.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The MPSS technology does not require prior knowledge of a gene's sequence and thus can identify novel or rarely expressed genes.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For a complete description see .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	To assess the degree to which MPSS data could be used to support predicted miRNAs we inspected the 19 known Arabidopsis miRNAs for unique representation in public Arabidopsis MPSS datasets and in our own MPSS datasets derived from a variety of tissues and conditions (see Materials and methods for details) .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We compared the intergenic genomic sequence flanking the 19 known Arabidopsis miRNAs with the MPSS data.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We found 30 MPSS signature sequences that were identical to subsequences within the flanking 500-bp sequences either upstream or downstream of 14 known miRNAs (see Additional data file 3).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	All 30 MPSS sequences were reported in both the public and private MPSS datasets.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	They occurred upstream downstream or partially overlapping with known mature miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Despite the highly repetitive nature of the Arabidopsis genome 28 of the 30 MPSS signatures mapped uniquely to only one miRNA locus with no matches elsewhere in the genome.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Two genomic loci were found for each of the two exceptional MPSS signatures MPSS78528 and MPSS28409.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For MPSS78528 the associated miRNA mir162 appeared twice in the Arabidopsis genome (upstream of At5g08180 and upstream of At5g23060) and the MPSS sequence mapped exactly to those regions.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For MPSS28409 its second genomic match was on the opposite strand of an intron in gene At3g04740 which was very unlikely to be a source for MPSS sequences because samples for MPSS were prepared from mRNA or other type of polyadenylated RNA molecules in which introns should have been processed.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Thus the MPSS data accurately reflected the expression of 14 known Arabidopsis miRNAs from a total of 19 indicating that it can be used as a source of indirect experimental support for the expression of predicted miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We then assessed the presence of MPSS signature sequences for the 83 predicted miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Using the approach described above 23 MPSS signature sequences corresponding to the flanking sequences of 16 predicted miRNAs were found (see Additional data file 1).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	All 23 MPSS signature sequences were present in both the public and our own MPSS datasets and mapped uniquely to the miRNA flanking sequence.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The expression of nine miRNA candidates supported by MPSS data was also tested by northern blot hybridization with eight of them producing a positive signal.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Another three miRNAs with MPSS data were found in the ASRP database (see previous section and Additional data file 1).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	These results indicate that MPSS data indeed represent the expression of predicted miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Comparison of predicted miRNAs to known Arabidopsis miRNAs	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	To explore the relationship of predicted miRNAs to known Arabidopsis miRNAs we compared the sequences of all 83 miRNA candidates from our prediction with sequences of the 19 known Arabidopsis miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Eight predicted Arabidopsis miRNAs exhibited high sequence similarity to one or more known Arabidopsis miRNAs and could be grouped into five clusters (Figure 5).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We could not find convincing evidence that Arabidopsis and animal miRNAs are related as clustering of these required the insertion of multiple gaps in the alignments (data not shown).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Putative mRNA targets of predicted Arabidopsis miRNAs	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A previous study has predicted that most known plant miRNAs bind to the protein-coding region of their mRNA target with nearly perfect sequence complementarity and degrade the target mRNA in a way similar to RNA interference (RNAi) .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Analysis of several targets has now confirmed this prediction making it feasible to identify plant miRNA targets .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We developed a computational method based on the Smith-Waterman nucleotide-alignment algorithm to predict mRNA targets for the 83 newly identified miRNA candidates reported in this paper (see Materials and methods for details).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Focusing on miRNA complementary sites that were conserved in both Arabidopsis and O. sativa our method was able to identify 94% of previously confirmed or predicted mRNA targets for known conserved Arabidopsis miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Applying the method to the 83 predicted Arabidopsis miRNA candidates and their O. sativa orthologs we predicted 371 conserved mRNA targets for 77 predicted Arabidopsis miRNAs with an average of 4.8 targets per miRNA.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The signal-to-noise ratio of the miRNA targets prediction was 4.1:1 when using randomly permuted sequences with the same nucleotide composition to miRNA sequences as negative controls that went through the same target prediction process.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A complete list of these predicted target mRNAs and their pairings with miRNA sequences is available in Additional data file 4.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Of the 371 predicted miRNA targets 10 were potential targets of two independent miRNAs one (At3g54460 mRNA) was a potential target of three different miRNAs (At1g60020_5_14 At3g27883_1009 At5g62160_613_rc) and the rest were targets of a single miRNA.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We assessed the biological functions of all predicted miRNA targets using gene ontology (GO) .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	GO terms for 254 targets were found in the molecular function class.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Molecular functions of the putative miRNA targets included transcription regulator activity catalytic activity nucleic acid binding and so on as summarized in Table 2.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	As some proteins were classified in more than one molecular function category the total number of targets listed in different function categories in Table 2 exceeds the number of targets with GO function assignment.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Consistent with previous reports  a large proportion of predicted targets encoded proteins with transcription regulatory activity corresponding to 50% of total targets with GO annotation (129/254).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	One interesting phenomenon was that most transcription regulators in the miRNA target set were plant specific such as MYB AP2 NAC GRAS SBP and WRKY family transcription factors (Table 3).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For example the miRNA target set included 10 plant specific NAC-domain-containing transcription factors corresponding to 9% of total NAC-domain-containing transcription factors encoded by the A. thaliana genome.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In contrast 139 genes encoding a general transcription factor bHLH were found in the A. thaliana genome but only three were putative miRNA targets.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We analyzed the expression patterns of potential targets to look for indications that they were under miRNA regulation.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Twelve of the 14 miRNAs confirmed by northern blot hybridization showed an increased accumulation in flower tissue compared to the other tissues tested (Figure 2) suggesting a role for miRNAs in regulating flower-specific events.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In a search of Arabidopsis microarray gene expression data available from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR)  we found the expression profile for 11 predicted mRNA targets that can base-pair nearly perfectly with five confirmed flower-abundant miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We hypothesized that expression levels of these targets in flower tissue could be decreased as compared to whole plant RNA samples as a result of mRNA cleavage induced by miRNA regulation.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Accordingly a reduced expression level (more than 1.25-fold decrement) was found for eight genes in total flower mRNA compared to total whole plant mRNA with another three whose expression was almost unchanged (Table 4).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A t-test on the possibility of decreased expression between transcripts listed in Table 4 and in the entire microarray data resulted in a p-value of 0.04 indicating that the decreased expression observed for predicted miRNA targets is significantly different from the general expression pattern of the entire microarray data.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Target mRNA fragments resulting from miRNA-guided cleavage are characterized by having a 5' phosphate group and cleavage occurs near the middle of the base-pairing interaction region with the miRNA molecule.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Using a modified RNA ligase-mediated 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends (5' RACE) protocol we were able to detect and clone the At3g26810 mRNA fragment corresponding precisely to the predicted product of miRNA processing (Figure 6).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Two other genes At3g62980 (TIR1) and At1g12820 share extensive sequence homology with At3g26810 and were also predicted to be targets of miR393a.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Consistent with this we also identified the corresponding RNA fragments derived from miRNA cleavage by 5' RACE (data not shown).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We were not able to identify other targets from flower RNA samples using a similar approach.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The microarray data used in this tissue comparison experiment includes around 7400 genes only (about a quarter of the entire Arabidopsis genome).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Thus we expect the expression profile of more mRNA targets to be determined as more whole-genome tissue comparison data is available.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Discussion	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We have developed and applied a computational method to predict 95 Arabidopsis miRNAs which include 12 known ones and 83 new sequences.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	All 83 new miRNAs are conserved with more than 90% identity across the Arabidopsis and rice genomes.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The expression of 19 new miRNAs was confirmed by northern blot hybridization or found in a publicly available database of small RNA sequences.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	MPSS data support was also found for 14 known and 16 predicted Arabidopsis miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Of the 16 miRNAs 10 were confirmed by northern blot hybridization or by their presence in the ASRP database and six have MPSS data only.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	In total we have found direct or indirect experimental evidence for 25 predicted miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We expect more evidence to be found for other predicted miRNAs as independent experimental data such as small RNA sequencing and MPSS data grow.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Among the 83 predicted miRNAs eight have strong sequence similarity with known plant miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The prediction results and supporting experimental evidence are summarized in Table 5.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Additional data file 1 summarizes the corresponding evidence for known miRNAs and contains additional detailed information for each new candidate.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Potential functionally conserved mRNA targets were found for 77 predicted miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Assessment of miRNA prediction	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The prediction method developed in this study uses computable sequence and structure properties that characterize the majority of the known Arabidopsis miRNA genes to constrain the miRNA search space.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Parameters used in the prediction were selected to minimize false positives while maximizing true positives.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Thus seven known miRNAs (37%) were missed using our selected parameters.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	However relaxing the loop length range to include all known miRNAs increased the number of candidate hairpins from around 180000 to around 337000 (a 53% increase).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	As the method requires stringent miRNA sequence conservation between Arabidopsis and O. sativa miRNAs with little or no sequence conservation in other genomes will be overlooked by this method.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Given the current knowledge of miRNAs it is difficult to develop computational methods to distinguish non-conserved miRNAs from noise.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The prediction method developed here is not specific for Arabidopsis and can be applied to other pairs of related genomes as well.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We attained a 67% success rate of northern blot hybridization on all tested miRNA candidates demonstrating the expression of 12 miRNAs from a total of 18 tested candidates.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Failure to detect miRNA candidates by northern blot hybridization could be due to the limited number of sample tissues tested as specific miRNAs may be expressed only under particular conditions (stimuli and/or developmental stages) or in specific cell types.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For instance further analysis of miR169g* (shown in Figure 2a) indicated a higher accumulation in mature siliques than in the seedling stage (J.L.R. and N-H.C. unpublished work).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	This can only be determined by detailed study of individual miRNAs which is not possible in a general screening such as the one presented here.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Alternatively the expression level of certain miRNAs may fall below the detection limit of our assay conditions.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Consistent with this idea in all cases the confirmed miRNAs were detected only after an extended period of autoradiography (2-3 days) as compared with known miRNAs that were more easily detected (see Figure 2 and data not shown).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The low abundance of the newly identified miRNAs is in agreement with the limited number of miRNAs identified to date using the established cloning strategies.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	MPSS support for miRNAs and possible polyadenylation of precursor transcripts	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We made an intriguing discovery by identifying known Arabidopsis miRNAs and their approximate precursor sequences in MPSS polyadenylated transcript datasets.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	All but two MPSS sequences reported here uniquely map to the mature miRNA sequence or to the flanking sequence 500 nucleotides upstream or downstream (see Results).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The MPSS sequence locations and orientations indicate that they are not transcripts derived from surrounding annotated genes.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	All but one tested miRNA candidates with MPSS evidence produced positive signals in northern blot hybridizations.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	As MPSS cDNA libraries are generated using polyadenylated RNA molecules  the presence of 14 known Arabidopsis miRNAs from a total of 19 in these datasets strongly indicates that at least some if not all plant miRNAs have a polyadenylated precursor form at some stage of their biogenesis.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Predicted miRNAs detected by both northern blot hybridization and MPSS have consistent tissue-specific expression profiles under both methods.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	This supports the notion that the MPSS data reflect miRNA expression patterns.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The public MPSS datasets are accessible only through an online interface that allows direct query of 17-nucleotide MPSS sequences.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Direct comparison of the public sequences and predicted miRNAs was not possible.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Thus we were limited in our analysis to inquire whether a private MPSS sequence was also in the public MPSS dataset.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Consequently only MPSS sequences that appeared in the private set alone or in both sets were available to support miRNA prediction.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The public MPSS dataset has 120-fold more signature sequences (more than 12 million additional tags) than our private MPSS dataset (approximately 94000 tags total).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Thus we expect far more MPSS evidence for expression of the predicted miRNAs to be found in the public MPSS datasets when the public MPSS data are available to be compared locally.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Target mRNAs for predicted miRNAs	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We used phylogenetic conservation as a constraint on miRNA target mRNA prediction: only transcripts that had at least one O. sativa functional ortholog among the top 500 rice miRNA targets were considered as potential miRNA target genes.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Because all miRNA candidates reported here are highly conserved in rice it is expected that their mRNA targets should also be conserved.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Transcripts encoding proteins with ambiguous annotations such as those for hypothetical proteins expressed proteins and putative proteins are not included in the target prediction because of the difficulty in identifying their orthologs in the O. sativa genome.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Thus the absence of predicted mRNA targets for the minority of the miRNAs may be due to the unfinished annotation of the O. sativa genome or to the divergence of target mRNA sequences that may preclude its identification.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Gaps and mismatches are commonly seen in known animal miRNA::mRNA base-pairing interactions and as a result miRNA binding represses the translation of their targets .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Although in most known cases plant miRNAs tend to pair nearly perfectly with their target mRNAs and induce mRNA cleavage  recent evidence has shown that plant miRNAs can also repress target mRNA translation in a way similar to that of animal miRNAs .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	To further explore the function of Arabidopsis miRNAs in target mRNA translation repression in this prediction we allowed gaps and mismatches in the putative Arabidopsis miRNA::mRNA pairs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The free energy of 90% of the predicted miRNA::mRNA pairs is lower than the average free energy of known animal miRNA::mRNA pairs (?G = -14 kcal/mol)  indicating that the predicted miRNA::mRNA pairs are potentially stable at the energy level if similar interactions are present in plants (see Additional data file 4).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Our prediction of target mRNAs for the new 83 miRNA candidates reveals that a broad functional range of genes may be regulated by miRNAs (Table 4 and Additional data file 4).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	As in previous findings the predicted miRNA targets were enriched for transcription factors .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Our prediction also included transcripts encoding proteins with transcription regulator activity catalytic activity signal transducer activity and translation regulator activity.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	This result is consistent with recent findings in animal miRNA targets and suggests a broader role for miRNA regulation in plant gene expression .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We took advantage of available microarray data to assess the relative expression levels of potential mRNA targets in tissues in which their miRNAs were expressed.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For mRNA targets of several newly identified miRNAs we found reduced expression levels in RNA samples from flowers compared to the whole plant.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Accordingly we identified the cleavage product of At3g26810 mRNA and those of another two homologous genes At1g12820 and TIR1 (At3g62980) to confirm them as targets of the same miRNA (miR393a).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	These genes encode F-box proteins and TIR1 in particular is involved in auxin-mediated protein degradation .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Interestingly F-box proteins are another group over-represented among the target mRNAs (48 out of 254 or 19%) while there are around 700 F-box proteins encoded in the Arabidopsis genome (2.1%) .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Remarkably these are the first confirmed plant miRNA targets that are not transcription factors with the exception of DCL1 and AGO1.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The identity and expression pattern of a target mRNA can help identify the specific expression profile of its corresponding miRNA.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Tissues with low mRNA expression levels should be checked carefully for miRNA expression.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Currently this kind of search is limited by the availability of genome-wide and tissue-/time-specific microarray data.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	As such data accumulate their analysis will enrich our understanding of the different biological processes regulated by microRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Materials and methods	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Computational prediction of Arabidopsis miRNAs	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The Arabidopsis genome version 3 and the O. sativa genome released by The Institute for Genome Research (TIGR) on 22 July 2002  and 24 January 2003  respectively were used for the present study.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Intergenic regions of both the A. thaliana and the O. sativa genomes were extracted according to the annotations provided by TIGR.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A scanning algorithm implemented in the Perl programming language was used to search for possible hairpin structures within each intergenic sequence in A. thaliana.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The method inspects each successive 21-nucleotide query window in each intergenic region with two nucleotide increments and searches for downstream complementary sequences with up to 25% mismatches.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We restricted the distance from the last base of the forward query sequence and the first base of the downstream complementary pairing sequence to a minimum of 10 nucleotides and a maximum of 150 nucleotides (loop length).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For each 21-nucleotide query the loop length was increased one nucleotide at a time and all downstream 21-nucleotide pairing sequences with more than 75% identity to the complement of the query sequence were considered as possible 'pairing sequences'.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For each query sequence the downstream complementary sequence with the fewest mismatches was saved as the pair sequence for the query.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Insertions and deletions were allowed in the alignment and were counted as mismatches.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Sequences from the start of a qualified querying sequence to the end of its downstream complementary pairing sequence were considered as a potential miRNA precursor with putative hairpin structure.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Twenty extra nucleotides were extracted from the genome at each end of a potential miRNA precursor for the purpose of structure check using mfold .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A G+C-content filter and a loop-length filter were applied to the 312236 hairpin structures obtained.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Only hairpins with a loop length between 20 and 75 nucleotides and 21-mer sequences with a G+C-content between 38 and 70% were analyzed further.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The remaining 21-mer sequence pairs were aligned with rice intergenic regions using BLASTN (version 2.2.6) to identify homologous sequences in O. sativa intergenic regions with 90% or higher sequence identity.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The secondary structure of Arabidopsis miRNA candidate precursors and their rice precursor orthologs was evaluated using mfold .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Only 21-mers whose Arabidopsis precursor and rice ortholog precursor both had a hairpin-like folding as their lowest energy states were considered as miRNA candidates.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	A sequence alignment search against non-coding RNAs collected in Rfam  using BLASTN (version 2.2.6) was applied to identify and remove homologs of non-coding RNAs other than miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The remaining 95 sequences were retained as our final miRNA dataset.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Northern blot hybridizations	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Two-day-old seedlings 4-week-old adult plants root-regenerated calluses and mixed-stage flowers of A. thaliana (Col-0) were used to extract total RNA using the trizol reagent (Invitrogen).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Samples of 20 ?g total RNA were resolved in a 15% polyacrylamide/1x TBE/8 M urea gel and blotted to a zeta-probe membrane (BioRad).	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	DNA oligonucleotides with the exact complementary sequence to candidate miRNAs were end-labeled with [?-32P]ATP and T4 polynucleotide kinase (New England Biolabs) to generate high specific activity probes.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Hybridization was carried out using the ULTRAHyb-Oligo solution according to the manufacturer's directions (Ambion) and signals were detected by autoradiography.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Finding MPSS evidence for miRNA candidates	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	To obtain genomic regions corresponding to miRNA precursors we extracted 500 nucleotides upstream and downstream of every genomic locus of all known and predicted Arabidopsis miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	If an intergenic region encoding a miRNA had fewer than 500 nucleotides on either side of the miRNA locus sequences were extracted up to the neighboring gene.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Two Arabidopsis MPSS datasets were used in this study: a MPSS database from abscisic acid (ABA)-treated plants and plants with elevated levels of endogenous cytokinin  and a second public MPSS dataset produced by the Meyes laboratory at the University of Delaware which covers gene-expression information for five Arabidopsis tissues at different developmental stages - around 10-week-old active growing calluses initiated from seedlings mixed-stage buds and immature flowers 14-day-old leaves 14-day-old roots and 24- to 48-h post-fertilization siliques .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	miRNA target gene prediction and 5' RACE	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	miRNA target gene prediction was performed by aligning miRNA sequences with target mRNA sequences using the TimeLogic implementation of the Smith-Waterman nucleotide-alignment algorithm.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Sequences of known and predicted Arabidopsis miRNAs and their O. sativa orthologs were used as query datasets.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	mRNA sequences of the Arabidopsis and O. sativa annotated genes were used as target datasets.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Gaps were allowed in the pairing of miRNA and their target mRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Mismatches were preferred over gaps by assigning higher penalties to gaps in the alignment algorithm.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Consecutive gaps were preferred over scattered individual gaps by assigning higher penalties to gap opening than to gap extension.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The top 500 putative hits from Arabidopsis miRNA target list and their O. sativa ortholog target list were compared.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	For each mRNA hit of an Arabidopsis miRNA if a rice ortholog from the same gene family was also found among the top 500 rice miRNA hits the Arabidopsis mRNA hit was selected as a putative miRNA target.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Tissue comparison (reference vs flower) microarray data used for target gene validation were downloaded from TAIR .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	mRNA samples from whole plants and flowers were used as reference and sample probes in the microarray hybridization.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	To identify the products of miRNA-directed cleavage we used the First Choice RLM-RACE Kit (Ambion) in 5' RACE experiments except that we used total RNA (2 ?g) for direct ligation to the RNA adaptor without further processing of the RNA sample.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Subsequent steps were according to manufacturer's directions.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Oligonucleotide sequences for PCR amplification of At3g26810 At1g12820 and TIR1 (At3g62980) are available upon request.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	miRNA clustering and alignment	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Predicted miRNAs were compared to known Arabidopsis miRNAs using the MEME motif-searching software and Smith-Waterman gapped local alignment to identify homologs of known miRNAs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Pairs of aligned sequences were grouped by transitive closure and multiple alignments were generated with ClustalW .	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The multiple alignment output was manually curated.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Free energy calculation	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	We used mfold program to calculate the free energy (?G) of predicted miRNA::mRNA pairs.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Note added in proof	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	During revision of this manuscript three groups  reported novel Arabidopsis miRNAs some of which are included among the predicted miRNAs in this work confirming the validity of our approach.	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	Additional data files	0
We ligated the sequence of miRNA with miRNA* using 3Ls that consider the hairpin as two separate strand when predicted the secondary structure  .	The following additional data are available with the online version of this paper: the complete list of predicted miRNAs (Additional data file ); a full list of the secondary structures of predicted precursors of Arabidopsis miRNA candidates and their rice orthologs (Additional data file ); MPSS evidence for known and predicted Arabidopsis miRNAs (Additional data file ); a complete list of predicted target mRNAs and their pairing with miRNA sequences (Additional data file ).	0
